Do they really need so many magnets?

Another GREAT lesson in hanging stuff on an Arduino.  Your ideas make Arduino USEFUL in the real world.  I have used DroneBot Workshop as a tutorial for years and it is my go-to reference when I have a problem, so please keep up the magnificent work.  Thanks,  Paul Boston

Hello I am making a project with stepper motor but I’m facing a coding problem . Can you please help me in building my project?

Thank you, sir!

Hey there Arduino folks, I am trying to do this project with the 2 Hall Effects switches, but I keep getting this crazy error. "Compilation error: 'attachInterrupt' was not declared in this scope. I had double checked, triple checked and quadruple checked the program and I entered it exactly as written.  I still get that code and I went online to figure out how to fix it but I am still lost. Can anyone help me figure this out? I would greatly appreciate it. I have an ELEGOO UNO R3 Arduino and I am very new with learning this. I had up to this point some success with other projects, but this one got me on hold. Any help would be appreciated.  Thanks

Thank you very much for the Video. I was wondering about the function of the pullup resistor. If I would use a module I‘d have to accept the given resistor. But if I use two blank sensors. I have a choice. Would i use one 10k resistor in a parallel setting,  or a 5k resistor? Or would I use individual resistors close to each sensor? Or could I even use the internal pullup to keep the pin high until one of the Hallsensors drains the current to ground when activated? Thank You!

Is it possible to use homing sensors on BLDC motors also?

Hello Sir I am from Canada 🇨🇦 how to contact you

Hello Bill. Could it be possible to build a servo controller without Arduino? Example with chips and simple components. Thanks again.

Awesome tutorial. Exactly what I was looking for. Can I also use DRV8825 instead of A4988?

Thank you so much

I have this setup but I need to add a counter that displays on an LCD.  Every time the the second Hall effect is triggered I need the counter to go up by one.  Can anyone point me in the right direction to learn how to do this?

Hello sir, is it possible if i change with IR sensor?

Thank you so much for you

Awesome project sir....in which country do you live ...?

you can turn a dc motor into a servo with one of these and a little cog unit to get the revs down good enough.

Thanks so much for this excellent tutorial.  Would it be possible to use your wiring diagram in an explanation I am writing for a robot I am building?  I would give you credit on the diagram.

Hi,  I really like your Youtube channel!  You explain everything very clearly.  This is a request.  Unless there already is one, I would really like a video on "Arduino Interrupts".  This topic seems very useful and also somewhat complicated.  It would be nice to have you go though it. Also,  I am making some interesting projects but I am not sure how to show them to you.  Anyway, your efforts are appreciated, keep up the good work.  And yes, I have subscribed.   Jim

So pd is 4 milliseconds, so it steps 1 step, then waits 4 milliseconds, then steps 1 step, then waits 4 milliseconds etc???

btw I have 5 FAULHABER AM1524-V-12-150-07 Stepper motors for you if you help me find a way to drive them

Anyone?

i noticed that you used Dupont pins...  do you have or should I say could you please recommend a crimping tool that does not totally mangle these???  i bought a kit from amazon that has a die for 0.25, 0.5 and 1 mm applications but these things flatten these pins, its terrible!

Dear Sir, please recommend or advice.. I want  to create a system based on Arduino components and stepper motors along with other components so that the stepper motor ON and OFF is triggered in the voltage or amperage range (Min, Max) from other systems. Thank You

Sounds Like Colin Robinson

beautifully explained.

I found you as best teacher. Good work.

Very nice lesson. Love the little adapter board for the stepper, I think I'll do one or two of those tomorrow.

Thanks sir, this is absolutely what I need.

What happens when you put magnet on top of switch??!

Hi Mate,  I am going to carry a steel pallet (overall weight of 700 kg) over rollers with 2 stepper motors on each sides, do you reckon "Nema 42 CNC Stepper Motor Bipolar 30Nm" is enough for this application?

Thanks, again for a great summary of what I needed to know to use Hall Effect sensors.

So good. So clear!  Thx.

Very helpful!

Your videos are awesome, you are expert! Thank you!

Excellent video, thank you! What components would I need to make an AC motor mimic the rotation of a Hall Effect Sensored spinning drive shaft?  Phrased another way, if I had an output drive shaft from a transmission, and I wanted to attached a motor to it and have that motor spin at the exact rpms as the transmission output shaft - then, in my mind, I would need these components:  Battery, controller and motor for drive system Hall effect sensor placed over the drive shaft Magnet fixed to drive shaft below sensor Raspberry pi computer  In my mind, I could take the 0-5v output reading of the hall effect sensor, send it to the raspberry pi, have it complete some logic that basically just says "accelerate" or "decelerate", and send that signal to the motor controller to increase or decrease the motor speed.  Thats the concept, but I feel like - other than some obvious holes in my knowledge of coding the raspberry pi to SEND the appropriate data - there is something I am missing. It seems to simple, and like I am missing a component or a logic step.  Or maybe it is too complicated. Maybe I could have the hall effect sensor go straight into the very smart ac controller and program the logic in there. I don't know.   This is hardly the place to ask such a question, but, here I am. Thanks!

thank you ,creative

Another excellent video.  steppers have been of interest for years but the implementation difficult for me.  This will be my guide,  Thanks

awesome stuff. Only recommendation is the use of a pointer stick as your hand often get in the way of what you're pointing at. Thanks for imparting your knowledge.

This guy is a legend!

Can somebody help me with this little problem I have I’m trying to make a Stepper Motor step past a holler fix sensor sometimes and I want it to stop at that sensor when a button is pushed anybody have an idea of how I need to write this code I’ve been trying for weeks and I don’t know what I’m doing any help would be much appreciated thank you in a Vance

That's exactly what I was looking for!  Trying to make a lift for a 360 degree camera for mountain biking.  Basically a jackscrew to raise a carbon tube about 400mm about the backpack it's mounted to.  So I really would only need a homing sensor and set the extension limit in the code.  Is there anything to look for in a stepper motor?  The camera is pretty light, like a gopro.  But 300 revolutions would require some speed.  Thanks for the great tutorial!

Thank u for the teachings you took a load off my shoulders thank you.

What parts can you put on the shat? I cant find any, trying to look for something similar to a servo plastic horn, but isnt screwed on

Best channel on the subjects. Thank you very much.

hey whats with the fancy bracelet?

Great video! Thank you!

hi sir, i need to know how to write a code for 2 stepper motors using a4988 drivers plz any one help me

wow A4988 driver is super noisy. Got my first printer with silent drivers, now I appreciate it more.

Wonderful.

Thank you so much for your thoughtful approach that is both pleasant and spot on for what I need to learn.

Excellent explanation. It brings me a sollution to my homing problem in my Arduino controled rotating bridge (scale model train). From here I can start elaborating a modification for my sketch. Thank you.

We were replacing blower motors on a high end stove. The hall effect senor would go bad. Giving a error code for the blower motor. This motor was located between the cook top and oven. I wonder if the heat killed the sensor? The motor could be powered separately and it would work.

What is the advantage to using one of these hall effect modules rather than the just a hall effect sensor on it's own?

Nice tutorial. I'll try making a remote sentry gun :D

Thanks for the vid. Excellent as usual. High tech windscreen wipers!

Thanks.

are there stepper motor with encoder ?

You're a professional installer, if you want to add Apple Car Play to your factory radio please check out our page.

This channel is underrated af

Thank you!

A real teacher . thank you so much for crystal clear explanation

the difference is convenience specially if you're just prototyping. the modules come with resistors built-in (that you won't need to add separately yourself) and a led for easy visual feedback, so makes implementation a bit easier

@errrick  Thank you.

Word yo!!! https://youtu.be/N9qYF9DZPdw

Thank you for sharing the video and instructions.  Where can I buy the motor?

Amazing explanation, really nice 👍🏽

اسف لا اجيد الغة لانجليزية  جهود رائعة وشكرا على ماقدمت لنا من الفائدة

good good

Hi, Great video, plenty of info. I don't know if people LIKE YOU are not here to share knowledge. Very grateful. thank you

sir i want to make exactly same project but using L298N driver......  how i do that??? help me please thankyou

why do we need to connect the 12 vols vcc and ground to the steper ccontroller and at the same time the +5 and ground from the arduino, what is the reason?

Thank you for sharing such an interesting and useful work.  It has helped me a lot and this is my result with analog version (AH49E):  https://youtu.be/BAfxA7JvHsE https://youtu.be/lOM5GylRBGY

Awesome tutorials!! Thank you so much for these videos ! Everything is explained so well!

Can a potentiometer be added to this to control the speed of the motor ?

Thank you sr, nice your video.

Great video.. is there a simple way to control a stepper motor to go clockwise  or Anti clockwise... stop .. variable speed would be good as well. But finally to lock the stepper if needed.. and to unlock ?.. I want to control an x axis on a mill. I have it all working with a Pwm switch with Petiontometer in it but when it stops it will not lock. I need it to be able to lock or unlock so I can use a Hand crank for positioning. Great videos thanks for all the info 👍👍

what is the thing that you are wearing on your left wrist? Oh, and always thank you for the great videos :)

Thank you for your work. This is very exciting.

Great video. What is the minimum duration of the stepper motor pulse or doesn't it matter.?

Stupid question but I figured I'd ask. As shown in the diagram at 11:53, both black wires can be connected since they're both ground, right?

642/5000 I have a problem, I am doing photo stacking, and I want this to evenly place the camera most even less than 1mm, I tried it via youtube made a rail with control but this did not work because my english is not good and too little knowledge. so i have an Adruino uno, Big Easy Driver v1.2 and Nema 17. i can inmedes software from pc to arduino, which i am now unable to find simpet basic software with the connection scheme, by that in now just like the world is at home and I don't have the time, I hope you can and want to help me a bit. Sincerely, Maarten v, Dam

a magnetic episode today?  I can FIELD you/ We can POLE together on this one / Are you gauss-ing me?

YOU TALK AS A PARROT, STOP IT AND ACT !!!!

too much talking....

The 12 volt line is used to power the stepper motor. The 5 volt line is used to power the stepper controller.

It's an anti-static wrist band connected to ground through a high value resistor to discharge any static build-up on the body caused by walking on carpet etc. Relatively small static charges can easily destroy static-sensitive components.

You're not really attracting a great reaction with these lines. Going pretty south if you ask me

My experiment did not work out like yours. By sensor board does ot have a pullup resistor. I used a 3.9K resistor it one of its ends at 5V, To the other end were connected PIN3 of Arduino and Output pin of the sensor. LED on 13 does not toggle while the led on sensor goes off on bringing the magnet close.

Clear as water... Some may even say that it is boring or monotonous, but it is the right speed to explain to someone who is a beginner, even to someone advanced ... Your videos are greatly appreciated. A big hug from Argentina...

Very clear, concise lecture...cheers.

#

I wish I had 1:100000 of your brain. Your videos are mesmerizing. A modern day Don Herbert.

Gearing ?? Motors mounted to precision ground threaded rods..... easily thousandths of an inch resolution and repeatability.

I made auto blinds for my house with a 12 volt motor with a gearbox. 3 relays to control the motor direction and a hall effect to detect when the motor makes a revolution.

Can a Hall effects  module be an normally open or closed like a micro sw?

Hi Bill.. Im using a hall sensor currently in a tachometer project so its not a problem for me but I was wondering about the repeatability of the 'Hall as a homing sensor' device. It would be great to do a mechanical test to prove repeatability with a 'tenths' dial indicator or similar.

great video! thanks

great video! Thanks!!

hi  am having great difficulty with a4988 motor driver and would  like to use easydriver module  as i am new to arduino i will modify the code to use easydriver  pins and let you know how i get on

Misleading title, it should be using hall sensors as limiting switches

Just have to compliment you on your transitions, both on your video segments and explanatory graphics sequences.  Yours are so good, so effective that they make me realize how mediocre the incredible majority of content makers are at the craft.  And I always learn something from your videos.  Thank you.

I see the way you lecture your projects, I will say you make them look so easy to make. with that in mind I have a request, could you consider in your next project a camera slider using a steeper motor and Arduino or potentiometer for controlling. I've seen so many DIY on this site but no one explain them like you do. Thanks and keep up the good work.

please please please do a tour video of your workshop.

This would work perfectly for a horse racing game like the ones you see at carnivals, sensing when the horse reaches the finish line.  I would love to see you do a project like that!

Do you ever connect the ground of the stepper motor power supply to the Arduino and hall sensor grounds?  I don't think it would change anything but it just feels weird to have two separate grounds.

thank you!

I just used a UGN3503 sensor, connected to an Arduino. The problem is the output voltage is 2.5 v without any magnet, so the Arduino doesn't know if it's a high or a low input, unless you reverse the magnet. So just used a double AOP Lm358 as a trigger for low and high state, with 2 1n4148 to make a "OR". This helped me a lot for reliability.  For information, we can find Hall effect sensors in some VHS or old cassettes players for free.

He has!

Today is celebrated as Teachers Day!! here in India, and I wishes you a very Happy Teachers Day and Good wishes! Thanks for your wonderful Work. Soumitra (sdey76)

More sensors ? Cool.

Very clear explanation, thank you very much. Usefull for my robotarm project.

AWESOME as ALWAYS

https://youtu.be/4sUnVqU01_4

👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍

As always: Thank you very much dear teacher! It is a real pleasure to see your videos!Greatings from Bogotá.

Awesome channel btw. All these quarter, eighth's, sixteens etc are soo all school. Is there not a way that you can define using degrees? I'm still learning arduino. But seems it would be so much more accurate.  Guessing degrees would be used in motors controlling say, a 3d printer?

Amazing video!!!

Lovely...new thing to try out and learn :-)

Great videos. Looking forward to completing the Real Robot Project.

Great video. Thanks.

Thank you Sir for sharing your hard earned knowledge...

nice

Designing a Camera rail mount that will move a raspberry pi camera.(using MotioneyeOS ) across a field of view.   The idea is to have the camera automatically stopping at points of interest.  This camera will be housed in a old dome style cctv case. There’s a lot of space in side the dome. The idea is to mount the camera on  fixed stepper  motor. Then using a Arduino I will program the stepper to stop at different points looking for motion. Then the camera will move to the next point recording movement if possible then move to the next point. The field of view is about 190 degrees.  I reviewing all of your past videos to pick up ideas. This last video has some great insight on how I can make this work.  I’m learning a lot from your channel and website. Thanks for all your hard work.

For a beginner when you say the program is easy to do. That is very discouraging, maybe your channel is only for advance peoples, so i a have to unsubscribe even i like it

nicely done. I'd like to see esp32 running espnow sending state of PIR sensor to 2 other esp32's to wirelessly control undercabinet lights.

nice video, thanks... just an fyi... S = signal

The lecture is as wonderful and exhaustive as the rest of your lectures. Your lectures fully explain the topics of Arduino's study. Can you also give lectures on the ESP32. There is also Hall Sensor embedded in the micro controller and of course it support the most interesting topic of all the WIFI and IOT.

On pololu they say to use a 47u cap and they say the reason is for not allowing voltage spikes to reach the driver. they say to put it as close to the driver's inputs as possible. maybe you are correct tho, idk.

keep watching and you'll become advanced .. simple solution

@nextwave5164  Sorry it was a stupid comment, I just subscribed to your channel, i just should look at your previous video, I will keep looking at your channel anyway, Thanks

Excellent instruction.  many thanks  A magnetic field has soft, gradient "edges"  How to obtain precise HE switch point?

When I want to learn something easily and deeply and still enjoying, here is the first place I poked.

I use the A4988 expansion board for the stepper motor driver, it makes it easier to connect it to the arduino, to your 12 v powersupply and to the stepper motor. You can buy the expansion board cheap on ebay.

Very helpful video 👍 I like it

this video really... bridged a huge gap for me.  Hats off to your explanations, I didn't even know half these switches existed..  Keep up the  good work; earth's future will be here sooner for it.  wwg1wga

I enjoyed your video as always, what is accuracy or repetitivity when using hall home switch comparing to micro meckanical switch ?

Gr8 Sir

2nd

After long time 👍

David Wingood  how do you keep the magnet from unbalancing the shaft?

Alireza Tabatabaee  https://youtu.be/4sUnVqU01_4

wwg1wga

And?

Yeh bro

