I hope that this course helps people who are just starting their journey with Arduino or have some brilliant project ideas in their mind but are clueless about how to program an Arduino. This course will begin with the basic electronics concepts and then gradually teach about Arduino Programming. Arduino's programming language is derived from C++, so this course will also cover essential C++ concepts.   During my time working with Arduino, I have seen many people building great projects and product prototypes using this piece of hardware. Artists, designers, and even chefs who had absolutely no idea about electronics, sensors, and programming coupled their creativity with electronics and came up with fantastic work.   So this course is also an attempt to encourage people, regardless of their background, to start building stuff that they have in their mind without thinking that they don't know enough to begin.   Certainly, this course is not the end to the world of Arduino. For making some projects, one may need to know advanced concepts such as EEPROM, interrupts, communication buses like SPI, I2C, etc. But before moving to that, one needs to familiarize themselves with the basics.  I look forward to seeing the projects people come up with after finishing this course.

Would anyone recommend this video for my son who really wants to learn this on this own, I saw udemy class for $200 this looks more comprehensive would you recommend it 13 year old ?

16:37

bro why do I hear the voices of two different persons during the course?

2:27

3:35:25

my doubt is that the number is incremented in loop when global variable is declared and not incremented when local variable is declared. Why so? and using static variable that's solved, how ?

Those who have some experience in programming can skip to here: 1:24:06

Hey i think

Did you say ship instead of chip

just amazing

My Progress Day 1 -> 26:03 Day 2 -> 1:00:10 Day 3 -> 1:08:47

very very thankyou sir for teaching the basics of the arduino!!

Your voice is Loved by me, because of voice similar to Virat Kohli 😊

I find learning how to program with Arduino extremely confusing. I have been wanting to build a type of remote control using lora modules, that when you push the button / buttons, it will turn on a relay on the receiver side. (It seems like it would be easy to build but, it isn't!) Similar projects I have seen people build using Arduino, all have different types of code!  It's hard to explain but, there can be like 4 different ways to make the code to have it do something, when you push the button. I've not yet figured out why it changes so much from project to project. Does that make sense to anyone? It feels like it's not 1 clear set of code.  And all this project is using is just 2 Esp32 and 2 Lora boards! (Plus, the buttons and wires of course) Does anyone else struggle this much just trying to build a project, and learn this stuff? Sometimes it feels like they are programming it in python then another with C etc etc.   I just don't get it. I keep trying to learn it but, I get more and more discouraged as I go on.

can u please help me out how to generate 85khz frequency as output while designing inverter with 5V DC supply.consists of 4 NMOSFET's with r-load

Water analogy needs to be removed...

Very helpful course. Thank you very much.

finally, I find your awesome ch 😍

54:02

can you please provide a link for the slides?  +thanks alot for the course.

Hey! I am unable to code for an obstacle avoiding car, can you help me with that pls?

Great  Work

@50:25 which software did you use for breadboard connection?

@abhijitghosh6242  It is Fritzing.

I have a proplem that says "unable to find port" when I am trying to monitor the work

@abhijitghosh6242  tinkercad bro

@avinashabhi3503  didn't get it!

thank u for your tutorial,which is really understandable!

its hard to believe this is only 4 hours, because of how much your learn

Thank you for putting this course together. It's helping me so much as I'm preparing for my final project for a course at my university.

Thnx bhai

Sir stars ko reverse me kaise code krnege

Sir,where i get advance concept videos on EEPROM, interrupt, communication busses etc. I want to make some college projects

thank you so so much sir!! this was really for beginners and whenever i feel stuck, your next line was telling me to not to worry, we will cover. so i haven't give up and watched this 4 hour video :D incredible explanation and very well organized video!!! just a little thing... of course this is just a beginner video but i would ve expect you to cover different arduino boards and writings on these. do you have another video for more advanced arduino users? i am just looking for a project for now but i really enjoyed and want to keep going with different projects!

hi great course bro learnt alot from it ..... if only this course was avaiable in hindi it would help much more population of young kids who really need this  and cant afford expensive courses who also dont understand much of a eng language

@nehanain3998  no find out yourself -_-

I am unable to upload the sketch "Blink". It is displaying error.

♥️

Cheers 🥂🥂🥂🥂

Thanks so much for this insightful tutorial. Now I'm empowered to even dive deeper into arduino and to explore its endless possibilities.

Great video Ashish. I'm 50 minutes in and not overwhelmed - all thanks to your excellent direction.

Thank you for this course. Is there any way of accessing direct sessions with you on Arduino? I am from Kakuma Refugee camp

You are an absolute champion. Much love and gratitude

Thanks for providing this content. Well organised and streamlined with all the main points to cover the bases of being a beginner

Someone just answer me can I complete this full course without having ardunio board in real. And can full understanding only by learning in tinkercad ? .....   So that I can continue watching on it .....

@lokesh4789  yes you can complete this course without actually having an Arduino board. But eventually you'll need one if you want to go ahead in the field. This course's aim is to get people started. You'll also need to buy supporting hardware which you may need along with an Arduino to make advanced projects. Thanks!

@ashishbansal9  Thank you for your info sir. In future for project I would definitely buy a ardunio kit.

​ @vaibhavdhamankar9814 😂

I run a class of high school students interested in STEM and we do pretty fancy projects.  But this year we have a whole new crew who have never seen Arduino before.  So this is perfect to get them started.  I've done a couple videos in past for beginning electronics (and some graphics are very similar to yours) but you do it well and completely so I'm just going to use your stuff. Thank you so much for doing this.  My students and I are very grateful.

Cheers

At 15:58, Req = 20 + 20 + 20 + 20 + 20 + 10 = 90 ohms?  That may be the correct answer for the circuit, however, it is not the correct answer for the calculation, as shown.

​ @maifantasia3650  yeah I accidentally added one extra 20 in the calculation.

@ashishbansal9  - just a heads up that I was actually paying attention and not just letting the video play out.

@maifantasia3650  That's kind of you. Thanks!

Thank you soooooooooo much

Thank so much ashish bhai aapne bohot achche tarike se sikhaya hai is course me👍.

half-bridge  input is 5V DC supply

which board and port i have to select as i am getting error while i select serial monitor. even i have selected board Arduino UNO and COMM 4

@16:03  it only has 5 resistor why in the equation you have 6? is it a typo? ;w;

Really good, but the accent makes it difficult to understand and follow along.

Worth It!

best arduino course

Thank you sir. Well understood

https://youtu.be/996uQsX7kjE

I am a long time arduino programmer and I do understand local and global vars and passing paramaters, but I do have a question about declaring local variables in void main loop that are only used to be passed to functions. 1.Do you agree that by default the void main loop is really a "while loop" that runs forever ?  2. assuming #1 is correct, then any variables declared in void main loop will keep getting redefined every cycle the void main loop runs and possibly resets the variable value a function may have changed ?  3. Do you just define void main loop variables as really globals above "setup" and treat them as local in the void main loop ? 4. Or do you create a additional "while" loop in main loop ?

2:25:04 bro used assignment operator instead of comparison operator

beginner friendly and easy highly recommended for the beginners

Thanks for providing this course for free It helped me alot to learn arduino 👍

sir which kind of arduino i need to purchase

47:54

thanks a lot well explained

very usefull, and impressive my son learned Arduino in just 4hrs it is amazing! Thank you.

That pulse width modulation explanation was crazy helpful. Thank you

00:00 Learn Arduino basics and electronics with this beginner course 05:50 Learned about current and resistance 16:34 Understanding series and parallel circuits 21:53 Understanding resistances in series and parallel 32:34 Arduino is an easy-to-use microcontroller board 38:27 Learn about Arduino IDE and how to install and upload sketches 49:35 Breadboard points are interconnected for easy circuit building 55:36 Learn about series and parallel connections and how to make a basic LED circuit. 1:06:30 Introduction to various components used with Arduino 1:11:19 Analog and digital signals are two types of signals used in sensors and components. 1:20:48 Comments, white spaces, and case sensitivity are important in Arduino programming. 1:25:50 Learn how to use pin mode and digital write functions in Arduino 1:36:16 Learned about arithmetic operators and variable manipulation 1:42:59 Learn about increment and decrement operators, and float and boolean data types. 1:54:08 Understanding variable scope and qualifiers in Arduino 1:59:36 Using constants and static qualifiers in Arduino programming 2:09:43 Learn about boolean operators and their usage in decision making 2:14:20 If statements execute code based on a condition 2:23:28 Learned about if-else statements and their nesting 2:27:46 Learn about loop structures in Arduino programming 2:36:57 Learn nesting in for loops and while loops 2:42:00 Learn about while and do-while loops in Arduino programming 2:50:53 Learn about control statements in programming 2:55:55 Switch case statements control program flow based on variable values. 3:06:05 Learned about arrays and strings 3:11:46 Strings and String class in Java 3:22:54 Creating a custom LED function with pin numbers 3:28:58 Learn how to write custom functions in Arduino 3:40:01 Learned about digital input and output and analog read. 3:44:43 Analog read and write functions in Arduino 00:03 Learn about Arduino libraries 05:38 Learn how to add external libraries in Arduino IDE Crafted by Merlin AI.

https://youtu.be/N7tOuxNgnrY?si=ZgcG4uVrNgLMCDPz

He covered most of the c++ topics in the name of Arduino. Thank god i had learnt about c++ in my 11th and 12th

it is good but how can get a certificate

Hi, yes. Accidentally used an extra '20'.

Hey, I understand the accent is definitely a barrier. You can see if the closed captions help. Thanks!

superb

nciiiie

Hi...After installing the IDE.. I am getting a error message KERNEL32.dll. This happens every time I install the IDE.What needs to be done?please help

3:58:18... For built in library code

How to print odd numbers using for loop here

I would like to learn the complete course. What should I do next?

4:01:00

Enjoyed the course very much

Isn't microcontroller the combination of microprocessor and ports...how can one be faster than other...?

thought this was in hindi

1. As a beginner, can I follow this tutorial. 2. I don't have a means for an hardware, can it be easy to follow and how @

Thank you❤

2:28:27 pin no 8 will blink

1:44:00

thank you for the great video

I am 14 years old

I’ve been able to fully understand the basics of arduino programming in just 4hrs. Bless you sir for this video. I don’t have a laptop or tab. Is it possible to get an arduino  asked programming app for iOS ? If so, how

Arduino can connect to wifi! Hmmmmm!!!

Very good

you helped a lot dude

the code is now okay?

I appreciate your efforts in all your content I have come across, thank greatly for sharing your knowledge with people, ❤❤❤❤

Covered half the content while procrastinating for my exams. Comprehensive and coherent so far. Love your work

dude, in my years of science education no one ever explained those basic electric concepts this clearly to me.

Glory to indians, the best teachers in the entire World!! 🇮🇳

Good information

1:01:53

3:01:11 I apologize for any confusion. In C/C++, the ... notation in your initial code example is not a valid operator or syntax for specifying a range of values in a case statement. It appears to be a syntax error or misunderstanding.

Very great job u have done sir

40:22 installing Aurdino IDE 44:10 Testing the Aurdino

The bait 😂 15 seconds with a english native speaker and then the famous Indian Master of electronics for 4 hours straight, love it I love you indian teachers ❤

1:7:00

1:6:00

1:5:00

1:03:00

Electronic engineering should certainly be included in the computer science curriculum. I'm currently in my third year and have successfully created games, websites, and applications. Finally, I'm grasping the distinction between event-driven and server-side programming. If you've ever developed a game using Unity, you'll notice a remarkable similarity in the programming structure. Both Unity and electronic engineering employ a setup and start function, each serving the purpose of initialization, alongside a loop and update function that operates iteratively. This video is truly excellent💗

Thank you so much sir ❤❤❤❤❤

Excellent way of teaching

Hi guys, if you are just started learning Arduino, please check this too.   https://youtu.be/B3q7AGzUXpc

My Arduino is clone. My computer is Mac Pro Catalina. I am experiencing not showing usb port issue. I searshed internet to solve it. I installed from every link that it has been said here and there.  But couldn;t solve the problem. Anyone can help me?

for 100, its the third condition, blue light will blink

Hi  The ... operator is used to represent range.  1 ... 10 means between 1 and 10 where 1 and 10 are also included. This operator was introduced in C++ 17. Please try to execute this part of the code with the latest version of C++.  If you still get any errors, feel free to comment back. I'll try to troubleshoot your issue.

01:20:00

Hey help me I want to understand a master code of a person that have written very hard code but I think this video would not be enough so where do I learn from next

Less then 15 minutes and you just made me fully understand electricity concepts that I've always had difficulty. To be honest this channel is the best thing I've ever found for free. Thank you so much.

finished it. thanks for your contribution

Breadboard, huh! I think I got introduced to the item and was told the name after I saw it. So, no confusion for me.

What course do I take after this ?

I'm currently taking a college class for IoT devices and they required us to buy an arduino, the class is almost over but I truly enjoyed it enough to make me learn more about Arduino and I'm glad I came across this video. Very good content, thanks a lot for the videos you guys put out there.

You dont have to do the intro by someone else. We love you man

whenever i upload the code, it says " error compiling for board arduino uno" what should i do? is it because i do not have an arduino uno r3 plugged into my computer?

freecodecamp is a walking W

Sir I have 1 doubt at 1:00:05 . If we connect positive terminal with the led and negative with switch, then what's the use of it.. the current flows through the LED first and move to resistor. Resistor used to resist the voltage of current pass through LED .. can anyone explain this or I'm wrong in my concept... Plz anyone knows answer reply..

Thank you soo much for this !

So much hard work has been put into this course. Such a good understanding of the electronics. Thank you so much for having a good understanding of the Arduino board. Have subscribed your channel.

thankyou!!

If only dude wasnt speaking out of a fuckin soda can.

Very good Video like my class room

Thank you for veryGood teaching.

==

This course really helped me step into the world of Arduino and I now feel very confident about writing Arduino codes and create projects of my own, thanks for the course!

ok

try verify button, that button means: compile without trying to upload to board

Its because its electron current going from negative to positive

Thanks very much !

Does this course require any prerequisites like knowing how to use C++ or does it cover everything?

A Very Good Course Mr. Ashish . It Really Helped Me A Lot . My God Bless You For Your Good Deeds ..!!

1:51:00

Great video

Gosh,, you accent makes it really hard to understand anything ....

Thanks Sir. I follow the tutorial from 0minute to end and i enjoy it.  please can you help with a link for me to  further my learning?.

Thanks for beginner phase. Where to go next? Any recommendations?

48:00

11:40

Great ! please upload iot course

great video. thank you. always striving to learn something new. it may take several plays to grasp everything (trying to get my head around  calculating resistance in a circuit).

what is the use of serial monitor?

else statement will happen

It is basic electronics not Arduino

One hour pure theory dude just do it

Really awesome. You are a great trainer. Sir you made Arduino easier to understand

2:49

You Done a great job here Sir, God bless you in Jesus name

Omg I’m so glad I watched this I never fully understood difference between analog signals and digital signals, I only realized the difference between analog data and digital data before watching this.

for talking with the uart of the atmega328p

Dammit man slow down 😂, I’m trying to take notes on my pin out, but your running through it man.

DAY 1: 21:18 DAY 2: 1:11:20 DAY 3: 1:32:37

Amazing Alhamdullah complete it. It first one which completely watched.

Where he gets to the point 32:03

Worst tutorial ever

2:42 neutron's too

10:12

Hello @49:30 you are using a online breadboard simulator.  What is the link to this site?  Plz share

Not helping me. I tried and tried and tried. The screen is micro text and never zoomed in on, so I can't read one single word. I can't even tell what the words are when I know for a fact what it says like a new blank sketch. I usually don't have any trouble at all with accents either but since I can't read the words I am having to try and multitask to hear and understand what is being said and I'm failing miserably. It was over an hour and a half before we even got to the first line of code and that's the whole entire point. Fail

So its basically C

02:01:34

its more like a course on C language but good job now i have revised C and seen arduino too

hey guys what courses reccomend takinlg after this course to increase my arduino and robotics skills?

1:18:20

why do we use resistor with LED?

I had a difficult time understanding the accent

40:00 ardino download

1:18:00

You are speaking sooooo bad

This is the god course!

It is Fritzing. At the mentioned timestamp, I'm using a desktop application. It is a paid software and I don't think it is available online.  You can search for alternatives online though. There are many. You'll find one if you progress in the course. I won't mention it here otherwise youtube automatically deletes my comment for some reason.

If you connect an LED directly to a power source without any resistor, the LED will draw as much current as it can, which can damage or burn out the LED. This is because the LED's resistance is very low, which allows it to draw a high amount of current, exceeding its maximum rated current.

if anyone finds a better arduino course on youtube than this , I will never touch arduino ide again in my life.

# < Hi sir iam thankful to you > A small  doubt ( "can't we use serial monitor without connecting Arduino board? "); // I haven't connected board  // Iam unable to use serial monitor

I don't know why i think the joke is wrong

Does that cover everything about arduino ?

1:39:50

Ashish is an incredible teacher! wonderful course!

I love this channel so much, you have no idea how grateful I am

His voice is so clear and very interesting..

2:25:00 I have Wasted many hours on single =  Soo it's very funny for me😂😂

Thank you ❤️

2,11,30

broooo lovee youu brotherr thank you soo much it helped me alott!!!! May you have alot of success and wealthh

Super helpful course Ashish thank you!    By the way I noticed sometimes you used the wrong word for * and /.   * is multiplied by/ times by / = divided by/ into  The way you explain everything though is super clear- thanks!!! :)

Thank you!

EQUIVALENT! knowing that's how you pronounce it changes everything.

I'm sure it's very good information, it certainly seems like it is. Although, at a lot of critical points, I find myself working so hard to understand your accent, that I'm missing parts and having to skip back every few second. It is a shame, as it seems to be exactly my sort of level and style of learning. thakn you for the effort anyway.

Is it necessary to write the code in void loop() function? Can we write it in void setup()?

Useless because they canna no speka Englis

thank u sir

The programming is too basic

No. To use the serial monitor of the official IDE, you'll need to use one Arduino board connected to one of your USB ports. However if you don't have an Arduino at the moment, you can use an online simulator. I have given that part in the course. Look for that chapter in the description.

serial monitor makes a two way connection (keyboard and character output) to the UART of the arduino ...

Not everything, but it is good start up for beginners.

@goatzy_run  do you know any good resources to continue learning  ?

A nice online class i think

Or just buy it and learn it practically

@mryogyag5171  I didn’t see anyone with more advanced topics and you are right  I have an ideas like building a smart greenhouse or anything to practice but that have to wait I don’t have the 💰 using simulator like fritzing or tinkercad is fun but I want to see real results 🤣

@Shrimphat  Me too :D lol

But I am lucky I have a arduino class  By my School itself

@Shrimphat  wokwi simulator   you can even upload hex firmware into it

I turned on subtitles and it helped a lot.

Void loop and void setup , none of them are mandatory. You can code just like C++. But to make it easier for us, they made a setup function to run once and the loop function to run endlessly. So if you just want to use setup, you can use an endless loop in setup itself and it should be fine.

i don't understand the problem. just use them like they want and good.  Their main.cpp looks like this:  main(){ setup(); while(1){ loop(); } }

Steve jobs teaching on a free course is the best thing ever

i see the atmega328 in ma ardiuno uno r3

If you know  c++ starting 3 hours are very easy

Thank you so much sir . now I am able to understand the Arduino .

Both second and Third LEDs are blinking for this one. Someone please help.  int Temperature=0; void setup() {   pinMode(6, OUTPUT);   pinMode(7, OUTPUT);   pinMode(8, OUTPUT); }  void loop() {   if(Temperature<50 && Temperature>10)   {     digitalWrite(6, HIGH);     delay(500);     digitalWrite(6, LOW);     delay(500);   }   else if(Temperature>50 && Temperature<80)   {     digitalWrite(7, HIGH);     delay(500);     digitalWrite(7, LOW);     delay(500);   }   else    {     digitalWrite(8, HIGH);     delay(500);     digitalWrite(8, LOW);     delay(500);   } }

Easy to understand. Very useful video.     Thank you very much!

they should of changed the name from beginners to scientists

How to get certificate for this course?... I can't find courses related to Arduino un your website.....

I swear whenever I'm in trouble Indian dudes have tutorials for em. Thanks India!

i am really really thankful to you for such a wonderful tutorial, i asked many doubt to many people but no one explained these things....... i am blessed that found this tutorial

when value ==100 the blue led will glow! in if-else simulation

What basically digital and analog pins do?

Hello sir, your teaching is very good and motivating. I searched more way to learn aurduino but I almost learn about your one video, thanks a lot

Thank you so much.

Which breadboard simulator was used?

1:14:00

amazing , thank you very much

I've understood everything clearly, I really appreciate your teaching and the way of explaining. Thank you

Awesome course, thank you.

The Tinkercad is the future classroom. We short of rigorous assessment and process of awarding marks. We can incorporate the use of Question Writer a program developed by the University of London.

only the last led should blink from this code

fun fact: the analog pins are (not always but MOST OF THE TIME) also digital general purpose IO that can be connected to an analog to digital converter ...

double like :elbowcough::stayhome:

this has been unbelievably informative its hard to imagine how much knowledge has been put into the world from this 4 hour video!

Sir after this what is the next step to learn

thanks, great introduction course.

I so wish this guy would’ve made more videos. What a BRILLIANT TUTORIAL. I would pay for this. Thank you soooo much!

Bought a lot of Arduino from Radio shack closures...time to tinker

Thank you so much this course couldn't be better. Really you have covered everything about this course even a person without knowing anything can be a scholar. Thank you so much guys for your effort, it really helps

This YouTube channel is a blessing to the world.

A great ready to learn introductory Arduino course. The best fundamentals to start from scratch. Thank you

Fantastic Explanation.

Thank you Bhai 🙏👍, Super tutorial, so well timed 👍🚩

We expect also raspberry pi tutorial please.

33:24

What do I do after this?

Easy to understand Great teaching Thanks a lot

Thanks!

Please what are the gadget needed for this course?

Tinkercad doesn't provide C language as option it's providing other language? What to do?

It's so strange how there are no video games that teach this stuff.

1:46:11 / 4:04:21

get a job

ESP32

For example i pay 3000 euro per year to learn this stuff in a less efficient manner

@slimjim8235  and i pay 18000$ every year

your welcome maam

try wokwi

@Ashish Bansal please explain the difference between return and break @2:56:35 . As both are doing the same thing which is terminating a loop, why we have return and break as separate keywords?

Sir plz tech us Micropython also. I searched entire YouTube but I haven't found any video related to this. Sir this is humble request please teach us sir. 🙇🙇🙇🙇

i mean no disrespect, great video and general info on electronics but this man was using disposable mics im sure of it.

The guy using while loop is doing it in proper manner, as he will not fall. But the guy using do loop will fall, because the statement is executed first before checking the condition, and he may fall if he is on edge at start.

Hard to understand but good content.

thank you!

When the Temperature variable is 100, the green light blinks

If you're looking for a practical course, this one isn't for you. In 4 hours, we see a real Arduino board only 2-3 times. 😑

Hello! Thank you so very much!  I have a question. May I ask?

That was awesome... thanks a lot...

You say right? to much...

Thank you for this video,very useful

Pls make one on sensors and radio frequency

Hướng dẫn các bài xuân đi ạ!

the tutorial is very good, but the sound quality is not good and that was quite annoying

1:50:19  Here, when i type the byte the font did'nt appear in blue color please help me someone to fix this!🥲🥲

Thank you for a great video. i have been practicing with my Arduino UNO 3, while i follow your instructions. Why do i get some lines of squares print  on some rows in the serial monitor.

2:28:32 LED number 8 is going to blink

this is a c++ course with some basic electronics at the start lol

can anyone let me know why is a resistor necessary for 3:41:30? thanks

Let's say you have a loop inside a function. Break would exit the loop, and continue with the rest of the function. Return would exit the function entirely.  For example, here is a function that takes a c-style array and returns the sum of its contents. We have decided we want to break the program by stopping at the third element. int array_sum(int *p_arr, int size) {  int acc = 0;  for (int i = 0; i < size; i++)  {   acc += *(p_arr + i);   if (i == 3) { break; } // Option A   if (i == 3) { return acc; } // Option B  }  printf("Finished summing array.);  return acc; } In Option A, the string would still be printed. In Option B, the value would be returned and the function exited right away, so the printf after the loop ends is not executed  Hope this helps. I am new to Arduino too but familiar with the basics of C/C++ programming. Even then I have only been doing it for about 6 months so take my advice with a grain of salt.

Correct. I'm looking for something different. Any link here on Youtube?

If you don't use the resistor, you would be shorting the positive and negative terminals while pressing the switch. That would lead to lot of heat generation in the wire. Which is not a good thing. If arduino detects a short, it turns itself off. That's why we connect resistance. And while the switch is not pressed, the pin is connected to ground through a resistance and that would prevent it from reading floating values.

pinMode(13, INPUT_PULLUP); can activate internal pullup resistors, then logic is: key pressed = LOW, key not pressed: HIGH - then you don't need extra resistor ... (the other side of the button must be connected to 5V then instead of GND)

Thanks sir,id learn a lot on this topic

woow i love this

I am doing as shown in 1:32:51, I am passing my variable value as 11. The serial monitor prints with multiple square boxes in front of 11. I cannot understand why these small square boxes are coming in front of 11. Can anyone please suggest why this keeps happening for me?

Thank you soo much for this video. By the way, can I practice the coding aspect without having to connect and Arduino board to my system?

.75x speed

please use people who can speak English...i cant understand this guy !

audio is dreadful..

Thanks for your great videos

Speech is too fast, excuse me, plss

Wow, Great Content...

Kahe dimag chat rahy ho, direct line par aoo na

Can what he's saying.

Beginners to programming can also take this course. I focuses mainly on thier topics. Thanks freecodecamp

too short

Sir I want to learn about iot

Loads of love from INDIA

For the first time in my i finished a video tutorial that is more than an hour but i don't have any regrets because i learnt alot just in 4hours. This video is a milestone to kickoff arduino programming. Thank you very much sir Ashish Bansal and FreeCodeCamp for the tutorial and all the others you do. I look forward to more tutorials from you guys in the fiels of electronics and robotics.

3:36:54

Thank you so much for your great effort Sir. Very useful video😌🙏🙏

2:25:05

Please check the baud rate once. If it is exactly same as defined in serial.begin(9600) You'll find this setting in a drop down menu towards the bottom right side of serial monitor.   If it is other than that, change it and then observe.

@ashishbansal9  Thank you for your reply. I'll check it and update.

@ashishbansal9  The baud rate is 9600 in my Serial Monitor. I tried with another value but the same issue persists. It is adding multiple squares in front of the value in the output.

@samratroy1487  it is difficult to say what would be the problem. Please make sure that you have used Serial.begin(9600);  In void setup block of the code.   You can also try to change the USB cable once.

👏👏👏👏👏 .This was an amazing journey ....🥂🥂🥂🍻🍻🍻🥂 Cheers to Freecode camp for This amazing learning platform and to Arduino inventors ..  We've got a bright future ahead ....💯💯💯

Electricity ^*==*^

21:38

Thank you so much so helping me discover a new hobby! Arduino interests me alot but i never understood it. This course was extremely helpful to me!

the speaker/teacher is totally incomprehensible

42:00

Please make a video on raspberry pi.

You are awesome

When he says "I hope I am making some sense to you"🥵🥵

Very useful 👍 this video

My kit came with the Mega board

My kit came with the Mega board

2:28:52 Blue light will blink

hey! i am a beginner and started watching your video . To start the programming i need the Arduino board . Can you suggest from where to buy that board ..

another L for the amerikaner fandom

Thanks for this amazing course...hats off to you man. love from India❤❤❤❤❤❤❤

An extraordinary course for beginners who wanted to learn Arduino programming.

Thank you so much for making this video.

it was supposed to be "crazyRobot == true" not "crazyRobot = true"

what is the name for the breadboard software its amazing

So confusing

another W for the colaws fandom

1. Fritzing 2. Autodesk Tinkercad   There are more options as well.

A breadboard is probably called that due to the tons of "breadcrumbs" on it.

"A non technical person without Arduino can also learn it " And you were right You are an excellent teacher 👏✨

Very good explanation sir. thank you.

Thanks

Binary math

1:10:03

completed any other suggestion

The history of the birth of Ohm law is fascinating. It's pure example of stupidity and stubbornness of members of Academia.

Thanks a lot for this beautiful presentation.  Doubt: Why Serial.begin(9600); was not used in else example?

I am a beginner and currently at example at 2:25:10  , my question is ," those digital pins at top ,where wires are connected (OUTPUT wires of led)  work as power supply ? " In another sense "i thought power supply is taken from 3.3-5v pins at bottom " this confused me  plz explain the power input .

Love you ever best video in my life

Amazing videos

Hatsoff!!! For your efforts to make the biggeners to understand even more better🙏🙏🙏🙏

Huh,wish I could have seen this in past. I got my experience the hard way 😔. (It includes shorting mains wire)

I got this as a hw at the class of 8

My windows 11 is not showing the  port option even though it's connected.

What if we write  pinMode(13, HIGH); Can we use no. In this argument?

i have 1 doubt... for testing any program it should be connected to arduino board...?

Do you have online course..

How to make such a PPT, it's amazing beautigul, it's there any tools can degisn the electronic Anime image

you can also try the wokwi simulator ...

100%

@Henry-sv3wv  whats that?

Could you plz point to the video duration where you find this problem?

@ashishbansal9  2:25:36. Thank you for your reply.

@belongstozorax4640  serial.begin is used only once in void setup. This statement is used to start serial communication between PC and Arduino

@ashishbansal9 Is it like either we have to use serial.begin or pinMode?

@belongstozorax4640  no. You can use both. Both functions have different uses. Watch further, you'll understand

@ashishbansal9  Thank you.

Yes you can think of them as power supplies in this case. But the current output is very limited. The main Microcontroller controls these pins based on the logic you write in the code.  The main power supplies are 3.3v and 5v. These have a slightly higher current output capacity.  You can check the technical specifications to know the exact current capacity of each pin.   For arduino Uno, I have explained this in technical specifications section.

@ashishbansal9  i kinda got it buddy ! Thanks  ....will be back with some queries ...

@ashishbansal9  just completed the video ! Very easy to understand ,interactive and interesting + the jokes 😂 Thank you very much

@ronwisely8495  I'm glad that you liked it.

pinMode is used to declare any pin as input or output. To set the state ( High/ Low) of any pin, you need to use digitalWrite.

If you're using IDE, then yes.

this is exactly what i need ! Thank you soo soo much , i would like to express my deep gratitude to you sir !

done

stop at 1:30:50

Amazing course.... Very easy to learn and understand.

i done stimulation in tinkercard for temperatures "0" and "100"  pin 8 led is blinking.

The most special word on this video is (don't worry ). Thanks for this amazing simple explanation

Ur explanation is really appreciated👏👏.kids also can understand this lessons..super.👌

Thank you so much

hay, im being thick i know but at 19:35 ish where do you get the 2+1+1 / 2 from?

just i dont have words for how good and infornative this video is keep it up!

Masha Allah, Wao, its brillient explanation! Duago keep putting information about computers programs n windows! Etc superb

Thank you so much for sharing these things

thank you KING

Thanks a lot mr bansal. Cant believe you did this for free. You and this channel inspire me to be giving back to the community when i reach that milestone

Nice tutorial. This can be complimented by this on discussing Arduino built https://youtu.be/nxjpwX4CzEg

wow

Thank you so much for this course!

Please see Revelation 14:12 & 18:23, Please dont take the PCR test is alarming what peoiple have shown

Whenever I upload my code, and check my output on the serial monitor, my output value duplicates. How can I fix this?

Is there a certificate for this course?

1:51:15

2:26:27

2:45:50

It's don't worry not (don't wary)

@arjunbabu83  thanks actually l write this last year in my last exam I don't think that someone will fix it after one year even I don't know that I wrote it wrong

We took LCM of denominators at second step. Which is 2. And then I followed normal way to add fractions.  Take a look at this : https://www.mathsisfun.com/fractions_addition.html

@Pooja  it's like C++ bro

You need to show your code.

@ashishbansal9  int myVariable = 6;    void setup() {   // put your setup code here, to run once:  Serial.begin(9600);  Serial.println(myVariable);  }  void loop() {   // put your main code here, to run repeatedly:  }  I upload it, I click on serial monitor and there's already a 6 there, and then another 6 compiles. So I have duplicates.

@eritreanblackpanther7946  can you add one more statement like serial.println("Printing..") before printing myVariable. Let me know the result.

@ashishbansal9  Now my output in serial monitor is: Printing 6 Printing 6

@eritreanblackpanther7946  I'm not sure why is that happening. That is not expected to happen. I am suspecting that this an issue in your arduino or drivers.  I had pasted a link in my previous comment but YouTube probably deleted that comment.

@eritreanblackpanther7946  if possible, try with a different Arduino board once.

@ashishbansal9  I use a MacBook Air, Arduino Uno if that means anything. But yeah, I don't understand the issue.

@eritreanblackpanther7946  There can be multiple things and it's difficult to tell without physically seeing your setup.  Without seeing, I can say that your arduino may be resetting after running the void setup code and maybe re-running the void setup. The reason behind resetting can be power issues or a bad microcontroller chip.  It would be easier for you to debug if you can get a new arduino or borrow someone's to check if that is happening in that Arduino also.  I tested with my Arduino and it is getting printed only once. So software wise, there is no problem.

I use a Macbook Air(not sure if it's the same for other Macbooks), you have to make two "installations" for the arduino programming. First, you go to "Tools" and click on "Board" to select the board you have, in my case Arduino Uno. Then right beneath, you click on "Port" and choose the right port for your board. Hope this helps!

@Pooja  Oh, that's odd. I have a regular USB port on my Macbook Air... What Macbook do you have? If you don't have the USB port, maybe you could buy like a converter or something?

@Pooja  Ahh I see. I guess you'd have to buy some kind of adapter then, something like this https://www.amazon.ae/Purgo-Adapter-MacBook-2021-2018-2021-2016/dp/B07PFNV82M?th=1

Sadly it is very incomprehensible. The speaker should have done a better english school. I wondering if someone understands this mumble.

I have an interview tomorrow on arduino and I have to make that interview, Is this Cource worth Spending 4 houres on this cource.

1:02:10 that's an utterus

Please make project and implement these concepts so that it can be really motivate people. But overall video was good for C++ understanding..

Sir can we save our project in tinkercad?

Hello sir what is serial.begin (9600) mean??

legend are watching the full video in (0.25x) speed 😂😂😂😂

Is there a course like this spoken by someone who I can understand?

I know you are showing us the Variable and variable-invariable print but what is it for? you told us about it and the communication from pc to Arduino. Is it for numbers ? i dont understand the point of it?

Voltage is not EMF sir There is a difference between Voltage and EMF.

thank youuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu for this incredible course it was awesome i really appreciate ur hard work!!

What can you make with this? Is it just for hobbyists? Whats the end goal?

Wow. This is an amazing resource for a newbie like me. Well done 👏 and thank you. 🇬🇧

Can we get certificate ... Of completion of this COURSE?

brother For simulation purpose tinkercad is not working in my pc

My dad just loved using static electricity to put birthday balloons on the wall... he would rub the Balloon on us kids hair! Haha♡

Nice #bharat_electronics_lp

1:27:00

Nice #bharat_electronics_lp

Arduino Starter kit: https://amzn.to/3FNI2dA

This is a beginner course. If you don't know anything about Arduino, and you are able to understand my accent, you can play the course on 1.5x. It will build some basics for you and then you can watch some videos on advanced concepts. Good Luck for your interview !

Yes. If you create your account, your projects will automatically sync.

This is a command to start the serial communication between Arduino and Computer USB at the baud rate of 9600 bits per second. This value can be changed to a different number based on the data transfer needs. Typically, 9600 bps is enough for printing data on serial monitor.

Could you pls point to the video duration so that I can answer your question?

You're correct. Can you point to the video duration where you feel I have made a mistake?

Thank you sir

1:58:00

Should I keep the aurdino board connected to the PC . while testing these codes based on serial.port(9600)  I'm not getting any results while running coade over my aurdino 2.0  IDE  so please help me in getting out the resultant..

I seeing that almost c language and ardunio ide look like same. What is the difference between thoes.?

Thanks a lot for your help

Wireless electronic notice board using gsm program code

Перевода не хватает

Good day guys:. I do have an old customized model of Arduino specially designed for a project. Can I use it for this course?

video is 10 years late?

is fritzing a one time payment?

56:40 where can i try this on a virtual breadboard?

Thank you sir , This course help me much more to learn Arduino uno.  Sir i have one question that how many programs can we upload in Arduino Uno and how to run a particular program from many program in Arduino Uno.

Wonderful tutorial 🙌

1:17:44

Does it have the next course?

are there some more vids for a expirienced progrmmmer? If yes, please, write me I am desperate. I already bought a book for the components and basic language, but I just can not find something more detailed

If the value of temperature is 100, then the else statement will be executed

#Arduino #LEDbrightness #Projectideas Simple LED Brightness Control with Arduino |   LED की चमक को नियंत्रित करना सीखना | Simple projects https://youtu.be/9ODlOXQ7fUU Program Link: - https://prokamsocial.blogspot.com/2022/04/simple-led-brightness-control-with.html

Ничего не понял. Не по-русски объясняете.

Comment

Yes.

@ashishbansal9  thanks mate, i appreciate it o/

This is Fritzing.

I don't think that you can upload more than 1 program. However, in a single program, you can write your multiple programs and switch that using a button maybe.   For example ,  If button1 is pressed { Run program1 }  . . . . If button_n is pressed { Run program_n }   You may have to set flags for momentary switches or you can use lockable push button switch in order to preserve button state.   In this manner you can decide which program to run.

how did you try the virtual breadboard? is there any tool you used?

Ty sir

Great

Thank You. Really helpful. Learnt a lot of things.

which language did you use c or c++?

Actually it is written that serial port is not selected

2:28:00 I'm facing a issue that my one led is blinking good but other two are also on(without blinking)

Wonderful sir

2:11:08

I really enjoyed the video, but your voice was a bit unclear at certain points

Hi, i really need a full course on robotics and AI or mechatronic

Thank You Ashish Sir for making this profoundly valuable course and FCC for bringing it to us.

Thank you so much!  Just gave you a follow on instagram!

this course is so helpful I LIKE IT

1:35:20

U teach ohms law very good and in very easy way than my 12th class physics teacher. Thanks sir.

1:25:01 seems quite familiar as a C++ user.

Detailed Comprehension and lucid for understanding .. this course helped me a lot Thanks

if you please don't mind kindly I need your slides

OMG! I always wanted to learn but some tutorials are very confusing. I can’t wait to start watching this.

in the breadboard example from 2:28:40. where does the power come from? those 14 I/O pins have a current output from the Arduino itself? when connected to a battery? o to the computer?

thanks for making  this video. I am making a project on the servo motor using potentiometer using PWM  without library and wanted to know if you can help me in that or any one can help me in that

It's wiring. Derived from c++

Select it from tools menu.

Have you checked if you have defined the two pins as output using pinMode function?

@ashishbansal9     pinMode(6,OUTPUT);   pinMode(7,OUTPUT);   pinMode(8,OUTPUT);  Are you talking about this , then Yes i defined

@ashutosh7758  have you defined them in void setup ?

Yes

@ashutosh7758  then I'll need to check your connections. If possible share a clear image of your connections on my Instagram.

I checked the code two places, once in my Arduino and second on tinkercad . Both gives same result

Today I see well again.Thanks for reply ☺️

@ashutosh7758  if you have made the exact circuit and written the exact same code on tinkercad, that should not happen.

Ok,I check once again. 👍

I did not get what you are trying to say.

@ashishkushwaha2910  so read it carefully.

Right. Anyone who knows C++, can program Arduino very easily.

hi, can u recommend me a book for the embedded system for beginner

Yes. When Arduino is connected to any power source, the microcontroller on the board controlls those pins according to the code uploaded on it.

I understand 85 percent of what you are saying in English.  Really wish you would hire someone who spoke English well so I could understand 100 percent  of what you are saying. Good information only have to rewind constantly to try to decipher what you are saying at times. Having to watch it multiple times but overall very helpful. .

@58:57 video time stamp, you have mentioned that negative terminal of LED to be connected to resistor, but we should always connect positive terminal of LED to the resistor, can you give a valid answer for this. Thank you - Shiv Senthil Kumar

Hello. Thanks for your presentation. I have just one problem and that is, I can not open the serial monitor. Arduino sends me this error: " Board at null is not available". What does it mean and how can I fix it?

please make an video for raspberry pi !!

I just completed this course and I am looking to make projects now. Thankyou so much Ashish and FreeCodeCamp. I appreciate the content.

I really like codecamp , but I find it horrible ...to all the lectures stitched together..which makes it very long...is there a channel where seperate topics are handled...most of the basic stuff I know, I just wanted to jump directly into programming in ARduino

stuid inda!

This video is in english language but i dont udarstand i want to learn aurdino but i dont speak english please you make new video in urdu languge so that i understode

thanks....already learn  basic programming but faded...great  examples for each chapter...hope more people reach this tutorial

Thank you Ashish for all your effort on creating such detailed tutorial, Appreciated your hard work and help.

thank you.

Thank you Mr. Instructor :D

Do you have any tutorial on how to code for the addressable IC RGB leds 3 wires like ws2811 or ws2812b the ones have 50-500 leds per strip, using one data pin on arruino with multiple effects, and the option to include an IR remote to change the effects, schedule and timer, and sound reactive effects include microphone setup, thanks

When I press the upload button for uploading the code in serial monitor then this error is coming  Arduino: 1.8.15 (Windows 10), Board: "Arduino Uno"  Sketch uses 1676 bytes (5%) of program storage space. Maximum is 32256 bytes.  Global variables use 184 bytes (8%) of dynamic memory, leaving 1864 bytes for local variables. Maximum is 2048 bytes.  An error occurred while uploading the sketch  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 1 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 2 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 3 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 4 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 5 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 6 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 7 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 8 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 9 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 10 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x7d    This report would have more information with "Show verbose output during compilation" option enabled in File -> Preferences.

it might help if the instructions were either told or readable, I have a huge monitor and none of the instructions can be read,  and I cannot get a compile to complete and cannot read the reasons why blurry , sad

Interesting arguments on the topic of bargaining, without which any purchase is necessary and I completely agree with the author.

Can we make Infrared guided missiles from Arduino

it is the best  I saw so far for Arduino  !!

HAVE SOMEONE WITHOUT A HEAVY ACCENT  DO THE TALKING.

I am sorry but the accent of the lecturer is such that I am missing most of the words.  He speaks too fast too. I will have to look elsewhere to learn this.

It doesn't matter where you connect resistance. I have answered this question in the comments. Can you try to find it? Else I'll explain again.

@ashishbansal9  ok sir, I shall find it, thank you

@brindhasenthilkumar7871  sure.. Feel free to comment if you need further explanation.

@ashishbansal9  thank you  Definitely yes

Check if board is connected properly Check for drivers Reinstall drivers if needed Try restarting Check for a faulty cable by using a different cable Finally check for faulty Arduino.

Hi,  All the sections have been mentioned in the description along with time stamp. Please see if that helps.  Thanks!

I have not prepared any tutorial on that, but I would suggest you to explore the neopixel library by adafruit.

@ashishbansal9  thanks

fantastic course. just starting out in my programming journey having studied a module in college that i really enjoyed. Learning lots. Thanks

Showing - " an error occurred while uploading the sketch "  What should I do

16:07 req= 20+20+20+20+20+10 is 90 ohms?????? Please explain this i don’t understand

Which Arduino should I buy as a beginner? And what breadboard?

Seriá bueno que estuviera en español ...

Is there a computer language that this gentleman doesn't know?

Explaination is Beyond collage learning.

The sensor i have idea of a special place if have it as 1 of security, if entered = sensor send as quantity counts. Maybe like a trust thing at 1st? Good idea right if dont have a damage kind of security but place secure by a lock?

At the water analogy diagram, i am planning if waterpipe have a mini propeller inside if spin = create voltage for powerplant = every use of water = electricity is created and stored.

the best course i have every seen on youtube, i recommend it for every person who want to start arduino projects

Thanks

Thank you teachers very much for this video

It's a perfect job!

Can you make robotics course please

1:49:24

Lovely content ❣️

how do u comment all the lines at once by selecting them?

Sir, Missing FQBN Error means I couldn't not understand please give me clarity. And how to open Arduino modle in software to simulate.  Thank you sir

Thanks

Hey. hope you are good. I like this video. It helps me a lot. I wanna ask one question. could we see the output on serial monitor, without connecting Arduino board?

There are 4 twenty ohms resistances and 1 10 ohm resistances in series. So the sum is 90 ohms. There is an extra 20 ohms while showing the calculation. You can ignore that.

Arduino Uno.  Any breadboard would work.

If pin = id - then like a record of id open door is good right?

Means a pincode can be multiple.

If a pincode "quantity of characters" more than 6 is gd right?

If know like Frontpage have autocode maybe is good too? Even if maybe messy but still perfect coding.

Have such thing or not for arduino? Issit really no 1 read this?

At the resistance part, a vehicle if have such pipe, the movement of vehicle can be increased and smoother like that right?

Resistance part can be button or spin or drag for speed of voltage to use?

Means i planning a vehicle speed to be just like that. Maybe if not by material of wire, by the resistance for speed selections.

The "Hello World" part in Quantity, is for printing stickers? I have idea if Electronic Typewriter like that is good too right? Printer + Keyboard Immediately to be used as a Typewriter(lightweight).

The part of "while loop" maybe gd for printing Calendar?

Haven't worked on Arduino IDE since very long. Please try by selecting the code you want to comment and press ctrl + /  If it works then good.

@ashishbansal9  Thank u sir ....thank u

This error comes when the board is not selected. Please select the board correctly.

I've used tinkercad for simulation

No.

@ashishbansal9  thanks

It is soo excited and also satisfied

Best Explanation

Arduino books available at https://payhip.com/ccourseslibrary

well explanation

in mine it shows like an error occurred while uploading the sketch

Thank you so very much

Awesome vdo

My teacher said that they call it breadboard because electronic engineers before sketch the circuit on the breadboard using nails and wires. But, who knows right, maybe she's right maybe she's wrong.

Is Yagoo in this video?

Hello Fellas! I want to learn arduino so what should i buy first i have no knowledge about arduino (i am in 10th grade)

Thank you for this fabulous course

I am trying to make omnitrix with this. Wish me luck

学习

I can't hardly understand the teacher. He talks to fast and I am hard of hearing also. The Electronics part I am ok. I have piddled with that 53 years. Also with my Ham Ticket 53 years. But the coding part is were the rat is. I need someone to explain the principles of why it is done the way it is done and why. I used to do Basic some but C and C++ is not in my ball park.

One of the best tech video ever with excellent clarity with terms. My request to you to please make such more tech videos❤️

Boss, you are just too much!

Thank you very much greart work

Can i create reactors nuklir with Arduino?

Mannnnn I’m sorry. But I SURE do wish this dude with his freakin extreme ACCENT was not narrating this program. I can’t even…. Dude. If I could JUST change the VOICE to this - I MIGHT just have a CHANCE at LEARNING.  Fffffffffffff-udddddge! Go figure! I actually sit down & brace by focus to pay attention (as the whole idea of this Arduino thing Really interests me) & OF COURSE…. there’s gotta be something that discourages me from learning.  Cuz I’ll say this - …….  You know what? No I won’t. I won’t say anything - Because I’ve got the get OUT of here - I can’t STAND that VOICE! OMG!!!!  This is pure HELL trying to DECODE … ANY of what ever he is saying. This is HORRIBLE.  And don’t tell yourselves I’m just being difficult. And don’t try to say I’m “racist” either. If you do - you’re pathetic. It’s universal logic to use the most NEUTRAL speaking possible when trying to reach a large base of viewers. They have CLASSES dedicated to this specifically (TV news reporters partake in these) to learn how to speak clear without any accents or cultural qualities so that EVERYONE & anyone can understand them. This is preposterous. It’s a joke. Who’s IDEA was this to have Mr. English as a 2nd or 5th language NARRATE this 4 HOUR LONG VIDEO CLASS?! My LANTA was that a stupid idea.  I think it’s important for me to stress that this is  a BEGINNERS CLASS; & advertised as such. That being said it very likely that a very large percentage of the viewers TRYING or that have TRIED to watch this have very little to NO experience or training in neither electrical nor computer science; or anything related to the topic at all for that matter. When learning entirely new content, it’s hard enough trying to do just that. Learning entirely new content WHILE trying to figure out what the hell an instructor is even saying…. Is almost impossible.  THANKS A LOT for running me AWAY.  Good luck & good riddance.

Mannnnn I’m sorry. But I SURE do wish this dude with his freakin extreme ACCENT was not narrating this program. I can’t even…. Dude. If I could JUST change the VOICE to this - I MIGHT just have a CHANCE at LEARNING.  Fffffffffffff-udddddge! Go figure! I actually sit down & brace by focus to pay attention (as the whole idea of this Arduino thing Really interests me) & OF COURSE…. there’s gotta be something that discourages me from learning.  Cuz I’ll say this - I

Thanks a lot 💯

thanks bro

https://youtu.be/ypXqqdPrYQQ

I cannot thank you enough Boss. I can only say for now, REMAIN BLESSED!

thanks buddy

Worst explanation ever.. Learnt only 10% rest is useless. Only programming.. Programming.. Without any Arduino programme

This was really very helpful sir. I must appreciate it  Can you tell me which software you are using at 50:22, when you explain the breadboard or share the link so that I can download it

Hello all,  I am working on a project but I am not able to download AFmotor library if u could tell how to install the library it would be good thanks.

Thank you for this video. Please do I need to have the an Arduino board connected to my PC to be able to view the output of my serial monitor?

Thanks for this free course

The programming section are likely to revise c language as it is the fundamental language for arduino... Happy to see this..

Can i get certificate from this ?

I cannot see the screen values

Sir thank you for making this video. You’re amazing 🤩

Arduino NANO

I have learned whole Arduino code for beginners in this video i love it.

I have a problem I can not solve:   1. I downloaded the driver and windows is able to recognise my arduino 2. I have an arduino clone 3. The bootloader is working because when I press the reset button the L led blinks 3 times 4. I choose the correct board in the arduino ide which is arduino uno 5. I choose the correct com port 6.  I have done the loop back test and it has failed for some reason.  And after all of this it still can not upload to my arduino for some reason I always get this error code:  Arduino: 1.8.19 (Windows 10), Board: "Arduino Uno"  Sketch uses 924 bytes (2%) of program storage space. Maximum is 32256 bytes.  Global variables use 9 bytes (0%) of dynamic memory, leaving 2039 bytes for local variables. Maximum is 2048 bytes.  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 1 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 2 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 3 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 4 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  Problem uploading to board.  See https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/sections/360003198300 for suggestions.  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 5 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 6 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 7 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 8 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 9 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44  avrdude: stk500_recv(): programmer is not responding  avrdude: stk500_getsync() attempt 10 of 10: not in sync: resp=0x44    This report would have more information with "Show verbose output during compilation" option enabled in File -> Preferences.

Hey guys i have reached 1:50:19 and topic ie byte data type ..i have one doubt what if put digit more than 255 in mybytevariable

Your teaching method is very clear. Thank you so much

wow 4 hour free course, ty

It is Fritzing.

thanks but can you share the download link for it

Yes.

Okay. Is there an alternative approach I can try cause I do not have an Arduino board

@temisanebireri4294  check the video part at 44:22. I have suggested one alternative.

@ashishbansal9  Thank you. But I thought that was only helpful in testing the LED. The difficulty I am having now is reading my output from the serial monitor without an Arduino board connected to my PC

@temisanebireri4294  Serial monitor is also there. Check 46:15 .

@ashishbansal9  It worked! Thank you very much

Your Arduino board has probably gone bad. You can try to replace the microcontroller chip and see if it solves the issue. There are some articles online which instruct how to reflash the bootloader, but that has never worked for me.   And sometimes changing the USB cable also solves this issue.   If you are able to fix it, please update me.

@ashishbansal9  I bought another one and it also has the same exact problem.

@abdullahyousef3596  try using a different USB cable, or a different PC. It's difficult to comment without seeing the board.

@ashishbansal9  I have tried a different laptop but it still gives me the same error, but I am pretty sure that  the cable is working because windows is able to recognize the arduino uno and I can even choose it in the arduino ide, do you have a way that I can send you the picture of arduino. and thank you for the support.

Hi, why don't you do that once and check what happens? Here to help if you are not able to figure out.

Thank you for making these videos.

Please upload advance Arduino course

One of the best explained youtube video.

Thanks for that ❤️🙏

Good job man especially when you considered all possible operating programs people have and explaining every single one of them

Loops. At 2:40:20, why is "int j = 0" re-initializing back to 0 when there is "j++". Shouldn't the value be incremented like the parent integer "i"?  edit: I think I get it. It's because the nested loop ends but the parent is still active. So when it goes back to parent loop it re-initializes "j" ONLY. So "i" is the only loop that maintains its increment until "i <= 5", every time loop with "j" ends it has to re-initialize value to "0".

We have to make a complete Bangla video about Sir Arduino

We have to make a complete Hindi video about Sir Arduino

Is laptop is needed for learning this course plesa reply

please post more about the features in Arduino menu, what are those stuffs in Arduino menu.

41:47

My man just explained electronic in depth

ITS THE INDIAN GUY FROM YOUTUBE!!!!!!!!

When I am going to run a programme, it shows "Board at null is not available" and "Serial port not selected"😓😓😓😓 What should I do? Plzz help..

Thank you so much you are the best man

Fantastic video, very helpful.  Thanks for posting!

I don't have an arduino uno but I have a nano board does the codes still work for both Uno and Nano?

Please create for Raspberry Pi from basic to advance 🙏🏻

Actually I hate indian accent

Steve Jobs: The Second Coming

I read the edit later. Correct.  You have got it right. !

Would be beneficial to have. You may face difficulty with the font size used in the video if you are viewing on mobile.  If you want to program an Arduino board, it is possible through Android phone.

@ashishbansal9  ok,thx for reply

Yes. Just change the board from IDE.

fantastic course

So sir we have to learn all these words like static ,serale and ect

Great intro and it will be useful to anyone who is starting with arduino and to the world of  micro controllers! Keep making videos for the humanity.

great course !!

Hi Arshish, your content is super good, I find it very helpful, thank you very much. You have upgraded my knowledge from zero to 70. I am sure if I am able to go over it again I will improve more.

Low level even for beginners

Crystal clear explanation. Stress free learning.

Hey, so is a multimeter and soldering iron required to start off with Arduino?

enjoyed every second of you course. Good work

Great introduction to C programming. Not much Arduino though.

So nice

Very detailed and beginner friendly.  I liked the way the tutor illustrated each and every thing with not just work flow charts but also live simulation. Good work.

Great course!!!! Thanks. Consider (to channel admin) breaking the courses in a  playlist.  ....Thanks again!!!!!

Thank you Sir

Excellent course. Very logical and clear. My 8 year old son really enjoys   learning from it. Well done.

By the way I can W Bush administration

Nice viedo sir

Ok

Thanks the  sharing the Arduino simulation and project, I really appreciated it :), Canada BC

plz make a course on raspbery pi

you get knowledge with experiences and actually doing it not by watching.

Not at the beginning. But eventually you'll need them.

Your son is going places. Keep it up!

Thanku so much..

timestamp: 1:16:26

Sir plz make full course on 8051 microcontroller programming

2:40:57 What i dont get is that the first loop when is run, itstarts at int=0 and then its incremented +1 so on the next loop will start at 1. But, why does the second loop "int j = 0" will always starts from 0 after each of the first "int i" loop and not from where it had left?

2:24:43 HAAAAAAAAAAA HAAAAAAA HAAAAAAAA

👍

He looks like steve jobs!

you are my hero

It will be so helpful if there were some real projects. Looking forward to you...

i came for arduino but  revised 4 years of mid school  lol

Why tf did it have to be an idian tutor

Really helpful!! Thank you so much!!

Thanks <3

Pls don't delete this video this is so helpful not only for those who is learning Arduino but in electronics as well so glad I saw this

Hi, In Switch case, after  break removed  then how the case statement executed continuously without getting the value of case is true? then what is the need to check each case value

Great

https://youtube.com/channel/UCR6YTj4WovwRr5Vt_IkUwOg

Hello! Thanks a lot for all the effort and preparation you put into these kind of videos, it is really a nice presentation and a very profesional explanation. Best regards.

Great Job!!! Greetings from Los Angeles.

learn to pronounce English!! for God's sake!

Hi, Always remember that the code will always do what you tell it to.  In this case, see the loop with i as outer loop and the loop with j as inner loop.  Both the loops are starting from zero.  The flow is like this :  The flow enters into the outer loop and then into the inner loop. While the inner loop is running, the j variable is incrementing and nothing is happening to Variable i. Once the inner loop has finished executing, then the i Variable will increment by one and then again the flow will go into inner loop. And it will be reinitialised by 0 because it will be a fresh run for the inner loop as the previous run was over. But the outer loop is still going on. And it will go on till the condition specified becomes false.   For each iteration of outer loop, a complete inner loop will run.   I hope it cleared your doubt.

@ashishbansal9  that made things clear! Thank you very much for the explanation

@tupac1971ful  you're welcome 😀

Hey,  Please see if the course is helpful for you from section 3 onwards. All the time stamps are given in description.  Thanks

@ashishbansal9  it cleared me everything but it made me questioned what I have done last 2 years  !

@ashishbansal9  oohh no no i learned more than arduino

why would they delete this video?

you can download it if you want...

That's how it is designed to work.  If you only want one case to be executed, then you must use break.   To answer the second part of your question : Let's say you are programing for a situation where you're checking something in a particular order. And you have written your case statements in that order. And now you want , while checking in order,  if something gets true, you have to execute rest of the statements no matter what. So in that case, you don't need to check any condition. So in this scenario you can write your case statements without break and it should solve your purpose.

why do you connect D7 to the right side of the switch S1 no the left one ? and also why 10k ohm resistor is chosen. while I understand that 0.5mA will pass through but I don't understand why 0.5mA is chosen

Thank you so much

Thank you for this detailed course.  One area that I am unclear about are Libraries.  I can see downloading and installing and including libraries in a code (say for a sensor).  what I am not clear about are what "commands" are available for use for a given library.  How do we find the list of commands available at our disposal for a given library?  Hope to get some help in this area.

Hi sir, I actually wanted to buy a kit of aurdino, so which one do you suggest?

Honestly the course for me wasn't good but that was because I watched the course with the intention to learn how to use different components. This course is for people learning Arduino programming. I learnt C before this course and I was familiar with everything he talked about. If I didn't learn C before this, I would totally recommend this to anyone new to programming and electronics. Nice course tho

Why we use the resistor there 3:40:00

I have a firm belief that advanced programming and computer science fundamentals must be added to electronic engineering curriculums, having those 2 topics covered grants an amazing freedom to create and operate, it's a pain in the ass having to cover it by yourself. Amazing content by the way, this is why the internet exist, spreading knowledge, a million thanks for your work, you are literally making the world a better place.

I hope that this course helps people who are just starting their journey with Arduino or have some brilliant project ideas in their mind but are clueless about how to program an Arduino. This course will begin with the basic electronics concepts and then gradually teach about Arduino Programming. Arduino's programming language is derived from C++, so this course will also cover essential C++ concepts.   During my time working with Arduino, I have seen many people building great projects and product prototypes using this piece of hardware. Artists, designers, and even chefs who had absolutely no idea about electronics, sensors, and programming coupled their creativity with electronics and came up with fantastic work.   So this course is also an attempt to encourage people, regardless of their background, to start building stuff that they have in their mind without thinking that they don't know enough to begin.   Certainly, this course is not the end to the world of Arduino. For making some projects, one may need to know advanced concepts such as EEPROM, interrupts, communication buses like SPI, I2C, etc. But before moving to that, one needs to familiarize themselves with the basics.  I look forward to seeing the projects people come up with after finishing this course.

Please make FPGA course too!!

15:26   answer=0.1A

13:17    answer=4 A

12:50    answer=02 A

12:20    answer=0.02 A

Found it

Third LED will blink  Bro it is true ...please reply

Thanks

Hire another locutor, I can't hear this teacher anymore. His pronunciation makes me sick

Thank you for this free course on Arduino. Appreciate your effort.👍👍👍👍🙏🙏🙏🙏🙏🙏🙏

please how do i contact you

Thanks for this wonderful explanation, i am a beginner working on small project kindly help me with. How can a simple program be written that dynamically calculates the water volume used in a tank. Given a cubical container of breadth=5, length=10 and height =20. If the tank is filled with water to an appropriate height, I know the volume of water is volume of water = volume of tank minus volume of empty space. Now, how do is the amount of water used calculated if the volume of water keeps being removed downwards after some time?

Can you point to the video duration where you have this doubt?

@ashishbansal9  3:38:21

@henrys6099  please watch the part of video starting from 03:40:55. I have explained the equivalent circuit. This should explain why we have connected it to right side.   We have used 10k resistance because we usually use high value resistance in such circuit. We can also use other value resistance. The purpose of this resistance is to prevent Arduino from reading float values.. float values means random values.   0.5 mA came from ohms law. There is 5 V across 10k resistance. So the current flowing in it would be 0.5mA

Let me know if you still have any doubt.

@ashishbansal9  My confusion is whether there is a limit on the current size? will the board blow up if 1A current flows through there. or it doesn't matter?

@henrys6099  yes Arduino digital pins can output 20mA each. We should keep the current flowing through it below this limit.

@ashishbansal9  thanks

The resistance in series with the led is to prevent the led from getting damaged due to high current.   The resistance in series with the switch is needed to read the voltage drop accross it. If you don't use resistance, you'll get floating values.   Floating values means random high or low.

@ashishbansal9  Thank u sir , get it

that degree exists its called computer engineering

@Saurav Bhandari  my bad

If you ask me, the basics should be taught in highschool

+1

@aelinwhitehorn3526  more like mechatronics engineering

I'd agree; the internet is here for knowledge sharing and cat videos. They sure do hate cucumbers.  In Electrical Engineering school, YouTube was my Secret Weapon!

@addiction1425  exactly which i m pursuing and it has cs+electrical+mech

@madmax2069  Electronics needs to be in highschool, but big tech doesn't like educated citizens.

@lookupverazhou8599  I agree it does need to be taught in highschool (as well as other things) but educated and intelligence are two different things tho. You can be educated but be dumber than a box of rocks, and you can be uneducated but intelligent.   Big tech likes educated unintelligent people because they can use them and make easy money from them. Big tech hates anyone with intelligence (educated or uneducated) because they can't use them or make easy money from them.

@madmax2069  Well they're getting neither currently.  Notice cell phones can't be opened anymore without breaking them?  They don't want anyone to be able to override their data collection hardware/software, or their control over "your" devices, or to be able to build competing electronic devices without all of those infiltrating algorithms.  They don't want you to know how to create an OS, build a motherboard, wire a circuit, or build your own internet.

@lookupverazhou8599  doesn't matter what they want or don't want, people are going to do it regardless, and there is absolutely nothing they can do to stop people from doing that.

@madmax2069  Yes, they can lobby the govt to keep it out of schools.  The majority of the world will remain dumb.  Very few innovate, or go against the grain.

@lookupverazhou8599  yes, they can keep it out of schools, but they can't keep people from teaching it to others.

@madmax2069  When they finally get a hold on ISP providers, they will start shutting down people's internet.

@aelinwhitehorn3526  lmao

@aelinwhitehorn3526  Yeah , to be honest that 4 year degree was way too loaded and stressful for me, i suggest someone do electronics or cs separately to save them the sanity.

can you please provide a link for the slides?  +thanks alot for the course.

Hey! I am unable to code for an obstacle avoiding car, can you help me with that pls?

Great  Work

@50:25 which software did you use for breadboard connection?

@abhijitghosh6242  It is Fritzing.

I have a proplem that says "unable to find port" when I am trying to monitor the work

@abhijitghosh6242  tinkercad bro

@avinashabhi3503  didn't get it!

thank u for your tutorial,which is really understandable!

its hard to believe this is only 4 hours, because of how much your learn

Thank you for putting this course together. It's helping me so much as I'm preparing for my final project for a course at my university.

Thnx bhai

Sir stars ko reverse me kaise code krnege

Sir,where i get advance concept videos on EEPROM, interrupt, communication busses etc. I want to make some college projects

thank you so so much sir!! this was really for beginners and whenever i feel stuck, your next line was telling me to not to worry, we will cover. so i haven't give up and watched this 4 hour video :D incredible explanation and very well organized video!!! just a little thing... of course this is just a beginner video but i would ve expect you to cover different arduino boards and writings on these. do you have another video for more advanced arduino users? i am just looking for a project for now but i really enjoyed and want to keep going with different projects!

hi great course bro learnt alot from it ..... if only this course was avaiable in hindi it would help much more population of young kids who really need this  and cant afford expensive courses who also dont understand much of a eng language

@nehanain3998  no find out yourself -_-

I am unable to upload the sketch "Blink". It is displaying error.

♥️

Cheers 🥂🥂🥂🥂

Thanks so much for this insightful tutorial. Now I'm empowered to even dive deeper into arduino and to explore its endless possibilities.

Great video Ashish. I'm 50 minutes in and not overwhelmed - all thanks to your excellent direction.

Thank you for this course. Is there any way of accessing direct sessions with you on Arduino? I am from Kakuma Refugee camp

You are an absolute champion. Much love and gratitude

Thanks for providing this content. Well organised and streamlined with all the main points to cover the bases of being a beginner

Someone just answer me can I complete this full course without having ardunio board in real. And can full understanding only by learning in tinkercad ? .....   So that I can continue watching on it .....

@lokesh4789  yes you can complete this course without actually having an Arduino board. But eventually you'll need one if you want to go ahead in the field. This course's aim is to get people started. You'll also need to buy supporting hardware which you may need along with an Arduino to make advanced projects. Thanks!

@ashishbansal9  Thank you for your info sir. In future for project I would definitely buy a ardunio kit.

​ @vaibhavdhamankar9814 😂

I run a class of high school students interested in STEM and we do pretty fancy projects.  But this year we have a whole new crew who have never seen Arduino before.  So this is perfect to get them started.  I've done a couple videos in past for beginning electronics (and some graphics are very similar to yours) but you do it well and completely so I'm just going to use your stuff. Thank you so much for doing this.  My students and I are very grateful.

Cheers

At 15:58, Req = 20 + 20 + 20 + 20 + 20 + 10 = 90 ohms?  That may be the correct answer for the circuit, however, it is not the correct answer for the calculation, as shown.

​ @maifantasia3650  yeah I accidentally added one extra 20 in the calculation.

@ashishbansal9  - just a heads up that I was actually paying attention and not just letting the video play out.

@maifantasia3650  That's kind of you. Thanks!

Thank you soooooooooo much

Thank so much ashish bhai aapne bohot achche tarike se sikhaya hai is course me👍.

Can you please point to the video duration where you are asking ?

You can try to measure the current height of water in tank using an ultrasonic sensor. You may not get 100 percent accurate reading due to movement of water but it is still a good option. Or you can simply connect a flow rate sensor on your water outlet nozel to calculate the amount of water flowing through it.

I can not understand

Can I use arduino uno rev3 instead of arduino uno?

Still don't understand what's the point with Arduino? Build a leg robot? 🤥

Steve jobs 😳

Quality of teaching is fantastic, but this video must b seen on compuers only n not on mobile phones, as  display is very very TINY N TINY to understant the lesson. Please edit your videos so that text display are magnified 3 to 5 times so that it is visible to human eyes without a magnifier, so that millions of smart phone users may b benefitted. now only computer users are benefitted and smart phone  users cant digest even 50% lessons, only audio is digestable and Video understanding is less than 30%

Hagan el esfuerzo de colocar subtitulos en español latino

Can we get a certificate?

Sir give me analog or digital input

Ye class Hindi me nhi ho sakta Kya

2:24:37  Wrong- If(isCrazyMurderingRobot = true) You are declaring that , this is true  Right- If(isCrazyMurderingRobot == true) Now, you are comparing is it true or false  👍Thankyou Sir❤️

Thanks

This is a wonderful course, right?

Language in hindi

I measure weight with arduino and then print with thermal printer. currently measuring and printing. but what I want is to have the button active after measuring. ie multitasking. can you help me void loop()  {      do     {       currentTimeAnimation=millis();       if (currentTimeAnimation-previousTimeAnimation>=animationInterval)       {         //350ms geçti         lc.clearDisplay(0);         lc.clearDisplay(1);         lc.clearDisplay(2);         lc.clearDisplay(3);         lc.clearDisplay(4);         lc.clearDisplay(5);         setAnimationPoint(animationCounter);         animationCounter++;         if (animationCounter==6)         {           animationCounter=0;         }         previousTimeAnimation=currentTimeAnimation;               }     } while(digitalRead(7)==HIGH);                measureHeight();     measureWeight();     delay(1000);     measureHeight();     measureWeight();     delay(1000);     measureHeight();     measureWeight();     delay(1000);     wdt_reset();           turnOffDisplays();     delay(500);          displayWeight();     digitalWrite(13, HIGH);     delay(500);     turnOffDisplays();     digitalWrite(13, LOW);     delay(500);          displayWeight();     digitalWrite(13, HIGH);     delay(500);     turnOffDisplays();     digitalWrite(13, LOW);     delay(500);         displayWeight();     digitalWrite(13, HIGH);     delay(500);     digitalWrite(13, LOW);     delay(500);      digitalWrite(13, HIGH);     delay(1000);     digitalWrite(13, LOW);     wdt_reset();      previousTimeButton=millis();     do     {       currentTimeButton=millis();       if (currentTimeButton-previousTimeButton>=buttonInterval)       {                  yazdirSureBitti=true;         break;       }     } while(digitalRead(yazdirPin)==HIGH);        //Buton basma için zaman geçti      if (yazdirSureBitti==false)     {         print();       }     yazdirSureBitti=false;    //       }

YOU ARE HEROES THANK YOU SOOOOO MUCH

Please upload tutorials for raspberry pi as well thank you

Thanks for your effort

Nice sir this is too much good vedio

Great explanation but I don't have Arduino Kit can someone please suggest me the best to go on with this Course (please give Amazon,Flipkart product Links only) Thankyou Very much.

A nice place to start at! Reading the Arduino references page alongside the topics discussed here multiplies the learning. I like how one topic leads to the other, and simplifies the learning experience.

Noted. Will make sure that in my future videos, the font size is big enough for smart phone users.

scrolled 1 minute for your comment ..thanks

No ads, damn!!

Can you please tell me which site can be used for running audrino programs and also I can check the connections of wire with the audrino and breadboard..

42:30 I am not getting the "port section"

22:49 I remember struggling with this in A-level physics it makes so much more sense now thank you!!

Thankyou ❤️ any videos for Arduino BLE Projects ?👍

Can you make one for raspberryPI. Thats way more powerful than arduino

sir try to increase your system font size while doing other video, it is not visible at 360p even also in 480p also

Brilliant video, brilliant teacher. Thank you!

I am starting university in a week. Electeonic engineering student here!

You are an institute without premises

Please someone explain this to me 🙏🙏🙏  In the 2nd example at 59:40, current always flows from positive to negative, right?! So by placing the LED first and then the resistor, won't the LED get fried?! Isn't it the resistor that is supposed to reduce the current flow of the circuit before it crosses the LED?!

isCrazyMurderingRobot = true makes the statement true inside the condition checker ?

https://youtu.be/VGVq8WnK7cw

Bro I need to run 16 gear motor using esp8266   For that what driver I should use

Sir kindly give pdf of the presentation🙏🙏

Very good 👍 this is something for starters like myself. Many thanks . 👏

Can you assemble a Karaoke Jammer?  We need to silence the noise neighbor who are partying all night.

I am certain this would be quite useful if I could understand him.  Working in retail parts, I recently had a customer like this guy ask me for what sounded like a "carpet keychain."  Asked him to say again, it came closer to "carvid keychain."  I was baffled.  He angrily pointed to a Corvette and said, "CARvet - like that!!"  Like it was my fault I didn't understand his 7-Eleven accent.

Which Arduino HW need to  buy for this course? Any link preferably from Amazon or flipkart.

Is there an error in this line? arduino sometimes freezes  previousTimeButton=millis();     do     {       currentTimeButton=millis();       if (currentTimeButton-previousTimeButton>=buttonInterval)       {         //5000ms geçti         yazdirSureBitti=true;         break;       }     } while(digitalRead(yazdirPin)==HIGH);        //Buton basma için zaman geçti      if (yazdirSureBitti==false)     {         print();       }     yazdirSureBitti=false;    //      wdt_reset(); }

Please make sure you have plugged the Arduino correctly and installed the drivers properly. You'll have to install drivers separately if you're using clone versions of Arduino.

raspberry pi is same as Arduino in terms of learning but we can use different programming language to program rasberry

@NeoPh03nix-lk8fc  raspberrypi can run linux and ANY PROGRAMMING language that runs on linux. They're not the same. In fact, arduino isn't even in the same league as raspberrypi!

@adtorresitpro  i said in tearm of learning basics not as in performance or advanced concepts

Resistor + LED form a series circuit. In a series circuit, the current is same throughout. So it doesn't matter if you place the resistance first or the led.   To answer your doubt, the current doesn't start out of the battery like you are thinking. That it will lower down if it finds a resistance. The current that comes out of battery depends on the total equivalent resistance of the circuit. So it doesn't matter on the position of resistance or LED. The equivalent resistance would still be the same.  I would recommend that you watch the portion where I have explained resistance in series and parallel.

@ashishbansal9  Thank you for making it clear, I appreciate it a lot :)   I'm currently at the arduino programming section and I personally think that you've done a great job with the tutorial so far.. I will definitely watch it till the very end.  Thank you for taking your time to make it as clear as possible for the community ^^

Correct!

What are the current and voltage requirements of the motor?

3 to 12v

@allinallno.1934  if your motor's current requirement is less than 1 Ampere, you can try the basic motor driver L293D.   If you have higher current requirement upto 2A then you can look for L298.  If you have even higher requirements, then you can look at options by cytron. There are options available for 40, 60, 100 amps.

@ashishbansal9  how to run 4 motor drivers using esp8266

@allinallno.1934   most of the motor drivers work on a set pattern. They have two control pins. If you give 0 (low) state to both the pins, the connected motors stays off. If you give 1 (high) state to both of them, then also, the connected motor stays off. If you give high state to one pin and low state to other pin, the motor starts moving. Let's say it's moving clockwise with respect to you. Now if you reverse the state of pins, the motor will move anti clockwise with respect to you.   Some other motor drivers may have an additional enable pin which you need to set high.   So if you understand the specification of the  motor driver you are using, you can set the desired logic to those pins using your esp8266.   Also note that you may need to use a level shifter as some motor drivers may not consider 3.3V as high state.

And to answer how to connect 4 motor drivers, it really depends on the kind of motor driver you're using and how many pins it needs. It should not exceed the number of pins available on esp8266. You may use some shift register or multiplexers to use one pin as more than one pin, but that may complicate your project.   So you'll have to see what works best for you.

Hey, please see if the subtitles can help.

@ashishbansal9  The subtitles are the only way for people like me that didn't understand the speaker correctly. Great content, but ... hard to understand.

Is there an error in this line? arduino sometimes freezes  previousTimeButton=millis();     do     {       currentTimeButton=millis();       if (currentTimeButton-previousTimeButton>=buttonInterval)       {         //5000ms geçti         yazdirSureBitti=true;         break;       }     } while(digitalRead(yazdirPin)==HIGH);        //Buton basma için zaman geçti      if (yazdirSureBitti==false)     {         print();       }     yazdirSureBitti=false;    //      wdt_reset(); }

2:28:34 Blue light will blink

when you start hearing the indian accent you know you're gonna learn arduino

Guys, there are subtitles in English available for anyone having a hard time understanding his accent.

Port is disabled for me

What is the price of a Arduino

No one can say that this person has completed full video in 4 hours with every small detail about electricity

amazing work, thank you very much!

hi i was wondering if anyone could provide me with the link for the arduino set/kit used in this vid

2:20 what was fun I really didn't understand..🤔🤔

I’m glad this is from only three months ago. That way, I know it doesn’t contain outdated information like some other tutorials

Really good content ...please  make more

can we use our usb charger to power up arduino

46:44 i will be saving

Great

Wonderful course, thank you!

Thank you for this amazing tutorial sir🤩

it was a great and student-friendly course, It was my 1st time with Arduino, Thanks for making it easier.

English pronunciation is poor. Difficult to understand.

English please!

Yes. You can either plug in with appropriate USB cable. Or you can cut the end of wire and take red and black wire and insert red wire in Vin pin and black pin in the GND pin.   However, you would not be able to upload code in that case. Use this method after uploading the code.

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

Awesome video, terrible accent

Very best tutorial... thank you..

Terrible audio quality and monotone narrator.

Right time  with best lectures with Ossum explanation is a blessing... Thank you so much sir....I learnt somch because of you today.....

I wasn't expecting that Indian

31:00 look how ben 10 fans table it human brain : kikin hawk  microcontroler : xlr8  microprocessor: jetray 🌝

AWESOME AWESOME REALLY REALLY REALLY APPRECIATE IT, MY GOOD SIR

-"everything in this universe is made from electrons and protons" -Schrodinger's cat enters the chat

Takk!

The best course to begin Arduino.

Is this the same course which is available  on Internshalla?

Can you please upload the powerpoint presentation you used in this course?

Awesome content.. Thank you so much👍

Why is the problem to use bigger fonts? Not all of us can see,everyone should record with 20+ size of fonts for todays full hd + resolutions

Sir, you are truly amazing. Your teaching method just straight way go deep in my brain....Thanks a LOT SIR......

You look like steve job

Awesome stuff thank you

2021/09/15 12:07 PM

❤️❤️❤️❤️ from India.💗💗nice video

The term breadboard comes from the early days of electronics, when people would literally drive nails or screws into wooden boards on which they cut bread in order to connect their circuits.

2021/09/15 05:47 PM

15:24

Hi, please reply to my question    I am a beginer to audiro and what coding language should i learn to handle aurdino??

Really helpful for beginners... All in one video..Very good tutorial within 4 hours only. The best thing I liked personally in this video is the concept of c++ programming.

Thanks!

I am interesting

2:28:31 blue led will glow

I am your biggest fan

my arduino class required 3k dollars and took 1.5 years to teach me what you teached me for free in 4 hours

Arduino is amazing for mechatronics as it's cheaper than raspberry pi ans also you can program it if you have knowledge of c++. Amazing tutorial about something people should know for science projects.

Great job done for the benefit of the robotics savvy community. Thank you very much for your generous contribution for the robotics & automation industry fraternity.

To bad YT does not give subtitles.  Hard to follow because of the way English is spoken.

https://youtube.com/c/ALLSPARKINFINITECo one more arduion course

Wonderful video! very helpful strictly recommended for beginners in embedded systems

that's really a great course, to begin with. i actually learned this course to make my rocket do things well and I felt it built my foundation thanks again.

Sketch so small unable to see. Pl. Zoom

Thank You SO much..

Do for raspberry Pi please

sir which ohm resistor is used for the led if we use pin mode 7,8,9

I learned a lot of JavaScript front end and backend from this channel as a school student... Beside this I also learned python..... And now I'm here again for the Arduino.... Thanks for these free courses.....

very helpful for the beginners with arduino. One question though.. at around 3:45:00 are we calculating voltage across second resistor? can we measure voltage from a single point only?

I would recommend C++. But there are tools which can help you program Arduino in python.

@ashishbansal9  Thank you

YEAH. If you can get past the Language barrier.

very help full

😱

Why would you pay 3k to learn arduino? You seem to make bad decisions.

Yeah This video is so helpful Can you share with me your skills

​ @notanymore9471  dont victim shame.

@ege8240  you can't be serious 🤣 he's not a victim of anything

this is really messed up

This video is truly helpful for begginers like me, who want to learn arduino.

Exactly why school is useless

Pff americans

You should have used the money to learn English.

​ @notanymore9471 maybe he took the course 5 years back or smt

if you are here studying (again) then it means it was money bad spent

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

This course has subtitles. :)

can u please recommend a book for embedded system  for beginner

Brother can u plzz share ur project that is ur rocket

awesome dude, I'm working on one myself

I'm not sure why exactly you're asking for pin 7,8 and 9.  But usually you can connect a 220 ohm resistor in series with your LEDs. Although there maybe exact values for different types of LED. But 220 ohms would be just fine.

Arduino can measure Voltage between the desired point and ground.

I just finished this great course, can you give me more resources so I can keep on improving and learning more about arduino?

Dope course! Please do a course for freertos or zephyr ,thank you

Thank You Ashish Sir for making this profoundly valuable course and FCC for bringing it to us.

Using vscode for writing sketches would make the life lot easier . Platformio is also great especially for IoT

I watched 20 minutes of the video, and I tried not to be prejudice to his accent, but F no... it is too hard to understand his accept, there are alot missing and unrecognized broken English. DONT DO THAT.

great explaination

What is electricity? What is time? Who am I? Am I even human or electricity moving through a corpse?

Whats the C# on an app for a button press to trigger Arduino? For example: If I type into the serial monitor "A" through Arduino to move a motor, what code is needed for the same outcome on an Xamarin app?

Thanks!

<3

Yay!

👍🏻

Pls make with python

❤❤❤💖🤗

This dude is not unnndersanding the input voltages.

bro i have doubt in float it is showing me error in void setup i have written every coding correctly but it is showing me a error... it is saying me a file ---- preference------show verbros output during... please reply...

Arduino: 1.8.13 (Windows 7), Board: "Arduino Uno"  Sketch uses 924 bytes (2%) of program storage space. Maximum is 32256 bytes.  Global variables use 9 bytes (0%) of dynamic memory, leaving 2039 bytes for local variables. Maximum is 2048 bytes.  avrdude: ser_open(): can't set com-state for "\\.\COM3"  An error occurred while uploading the sketch    This report would have more information with "Show verbose output during compilation" option enabled in File -> Preferences.    this error is showing at  1:28:37 while uploading the code what to do to avoid the code and whats the meaning of the code

Really this course is very good for beginners

Coach : Computer doesn't understand human language  Opencodex : hold my beer

Thanks a lot for the tutorial!

indians are the best they have easy english for which we can understand anything

bro tinkercad is free software..... and say how to use this software.....

Could you please make a video on how to make library's in details sir. Hope in future I may see that video from you. Because, I loved the way of your teaching. Thanks for this and for future videos.  Please tell us about braud rate. There are different braud rates. So, when to use different braud rates.  Tell us how to know the which library should use for particular project(How to choose/find them.  My request for the above items are dire need. Hope I will get help from you for above stated items.

i want to built a robot on wheels  that follows my phone

Sir Arduino advance course plz

no word to say . thank you so much lots of love . thanks bhiyaaa thanksssss .

OMG,,, You have covered whole electronics 🤐

Thanks a lot..

Dont mean to be rude,. Just I cannot get passed his accent . Yet he is trying to do a good job and teach .

Insane loking for this only.

Holyshit ... this is fking gold

i did't understanded the for loop nesting

Why am I not getting the port

No I haven't felt a painful jolt when brushing someone's arm thank god and I have heard cracking sounds when taking off my sweaters and I think I haven't tried to attract paper bits by a comb but i think i did with a pen and other things

great video. i always learn things from you guys. and about this video. i heard too many "right",  "okay", "all right". these words make me feel I am in a class. and it's absolutely fantastic.

2:10

This is helpful for me  My old is 12  Engineering is my ambition I'm taking journey to this

Best tutorial about arduino

your teaching is wonderful i really enjoyed it please make these kind of videos to help people like me once again thank you sir

Excellent training....You are outstanding Sir.

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

thank arduino man

I start from Zero level but after see this video, feel arduino working and how to program. thank you❤❤

thanks a lot  it is my first time to get benefit from an Hindi English speaker :D

you are loved bro.. you cared for those who did'nt have arduino.

This is perfect !!!!!!!This Iss....❤

You are Indian ?🇮🇳

Sir I need your help in my project of Arduino can I get some help, plz sir

Thanks for the course: are you the same guy as in this video lecture. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F0WoVEr0-44&list=PLWKjhJtqVAbmGw5fN5BQlwuug-8bDmabi&ab_channel=freeCodeCamp.org

thank you magic arduino guy

can we have basic videos on electrical components like inductors and all

The serial monitor  of Arduinodroid app of my mobile doesn't show anything. Can anyone give me a solution??

35:13

Awesome,Thank you,i cannot wait for the next advanced episode.

Thanks!

How did you manage to print on the screen? I get the error "null target"

Please sir make a video on raspberry pi

Could you do one for raspberry pi

2:24:24  LOL

Great video, but man I did not get the pre and post increment, decrement ++ and -- idea at all. (1:41:51) Can anyone throw some light on my darkness please?

Thanks, Yara!

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

I would need some additional info to answer your question. 1. What OS are you using? 2. Have you plugged your Arduino board correctly? 3. Is the blink example Sketch working fine on your arduino? 4. Are you using serial.begin(9600) in void setup?

@ashishbansal9  my mistake. I tough you were using tinkercad.

Increment operator increases the value of variable by 1 and decrement operator decreases the value of variable by 1.  If you use post increment operator, then the original value of the variable is used first and then the variable is incremented. If you use pre increment operator, then the variable is incremented first and the incremented value is used.   Let's say  a = 5 Print(a++)   Output will be 5 only because the original value is used first.  Now if you print a again by   print (a)   Then the output will be 6. Bcz in the previous statement, we printed the original value and incremented the value.  But if you use   print(++a)  Then the output will be 6. Because the value got incremented first and then used.

Also note, this rule is still valid if you use assignment operator.   can you tell me the output if we write  a = 5 a = a++  print ( a )  And   a = 5 a = ++a  print ( a )

@ashishbansal9  Hi Ashish - first, thank you for the video as well as for making such an effort to put me right on this issue. This is very much appreciated. I have been ' at-it' for a bit too long today and my head is spinning at the moment - too much information, and nothing is getting in! I will re-read your comments and come back to you tomorrow with a reply. (In Australia) All the best.

@ashishbansal9  Hi Ashish - I have broken my head over this! For a start from your comment above: a=5 a=5++ output will be 5 If that is the case, then using increment with post instruction seems to have no effect!  Moving forward you wrote: print (a) a-6 But isn't the variable a=5? I seem to be missing a very important bit of understanding here - or - the Inc and Dec functions only work one way round. Sorry if I am being thick here.

@johnx9318     whenever we declare variables, those variables take up some space in memory. So when you declare  int a = 5  This variable takes up some space in memory.   Second,  a++  and a=a++   Are two different statements and have a different outcome.   When you use a variable with a post increment operator, you are telling the compiler to use the original value of 'a' before incrementing it.   So when you write  a = a++  You asked the compiler to use the original value of a and assign in back to a. Getting me? So there is no change in the value of a.  But if you write  a = ++a  You're asking the compiler to increment the variable first and then assign it to 'a' So now 'a' will have the updated value.   When you simply write a++ or ++a, this would have the same affect, bcz the variable would be updated in the memory in both the cases.

I would suggest you to calm down a bit and read what I have written very slowly. You'll understand. Even if you don't, it's not a problem.   For time being, you can understand this as :  a = a + 1  Would give you the same output.

I can also think of one example to make it clear to you.  So let's say you have a jar named 'a' which stores sugar in it.   Presently, it has 5 KG of sugar.   Now, someone asks you, hey tell me how much sugar that jar has right now and add 1 kg of sugar to it. So you tell them that this jar has 5 kg of sugar in it and add 1 kg of sugar in it. And now the jar holds 6 kg of sugar in it. Now if someone asks you, tell me how much sugar does it have? You'll tell them 6 Kg. Right?   This situation is similar to post increment operator.    Now let's have a similar situation A jar with 5 kg of sugar is there.  Someone asks you add one kg sugar to it and tell how much sugar it has now, you'll tell it has 6 kg of sugar. This is similar to pre increment operator.   I hope you got the picture now.

@ashishbansal9  Hi again. I have watched the video segment many times as well as transferring all of your comments to a document - which I printed and have also read many times. I understand what you are saying and i think I get the idea, except when I see something like: If a = a++ a is unchanged, ie, a=a, therefore the code seems redundant. That is why I used the expression 'doesn't seem to work'. The sugar analogy works, but only for one pre and one post instruction. In both cases, sugar =6kg. There is not example where 5kg add 1 kg = 5kg as there is in the code. Hence my broken head. Thanks for your efforts in trying to find a way to explain this - I really appreciate it, but I think I should sit on this one and come back to it another time.

@johnx9318   Yes Using a=a++ is absolutely useless.  It is just one of the trick questions which comes in coding exams. It is just to test the understanding.

@ashishbansal9  PS - I copied out all of the code and ran it, but observed nothing that made sense of the conundrum. I then copied out four counters. Two Inc counters initialised from zero, and two Dec counters initialised at 100. The two Inc counters ran with the post command starting from zero and the pre command starting from one. The Dec counters ran with the post starting on 100 and the pre starting on 99. Getting there - I hope!

@johnx9318  that's nice! Let me know if you need any more help.

@ashishbansal9  Well at least I got that right - at a price! It drove me nuts. I am nearly there - thanks for your help, and again, this is a terrific video.

@johnx9318  no problem. I'm glad I could help you.

@ashishbansal9  Hi Ashish - I hope this message finds you well? I just re-read the information you very kindly explained to me last year. Firstly, thank you for your efforts. I am truly humbled that you took so much time to help me. I hope it gives you satisfaction to know that your efforts have actually pulled me over the line to where I am now a more competent programmer! This problem seems quite easy today, but last year I just couldn't get it! Thank you. Stay well.

i have coming with adding libraries i just add them by downloading it wouldnot working anymore help me

✨

47:29

The tutorial was really good but I think its more a C++ tutorial than a arduino tutorial😐😐

I wrote code to turn on a specific light for a specific luminescence but there is some mistake can you please clarify? thanks .   int LEDred = 13;  int LEDblue = 12;  int LEDgreen = 11;  void setup() {    // put your setup code here, to run once:    Serial.begin(9600);    pinMode(13,OUTPUT);    pinMode(12,OUTPUT);    pinMode(11,OUTPUT);    }    void loop() {    // put your main code here, to run repeatedly:  int light =  analogRead(A0);      if(400<light<460)  {      digitalWrite(LEDred,HIGH);      digitalWrite(LEDblue,LOW);      digitalWrite(LEDgreen,LOW);}  else if (320<light<390){        digitalWrite(LEDblue,HIGH);        digitalWrite(LEDred,LOW);        digitalWrite(LEDgreen,LOW);}  else if (180<light<280) {        digitalWrite(LEDgreen,HIGH);        digitalWrite(LEDblue,LOW);        digitalWrite(LEDred,LOW);}   else if(light<160){        digitalWrite(LEDred,LOW);        digitalWrite(LEDblue,LOW);        digitalWrite(LEDgreen,LOW);}    Serial.println(light);         } //Thank you so much.

Sir nice explanation it goes without saying then could you please tell me what is volatile and static can be used these two in arduino? What are those two ? Then please be kind enough to clarify these two concept simply?

Great course. Solid presentation and animations. The narrator strong accent makes it hard to understand some parts. Great job nonetheless.

who could possibbly give dislike to this briliant video? I loved it! Thank you for it

I need a tutor for few hours today, please be proficient in written and spoken English. We can meet on google meets or a google classroom.

Great video! I'm trying to build a obstacle avoiding robot using 2 servo motors and an ultrasonic sensor. How would I code this?

I finished this 4hrs course . I am requesting to post Arduino courses (Arduino intermediate course).

Great

Thank You so much for providing such kind of Information

Im not getting the option to choose port its blurred.

I don't know how these lame type english talking guy take a course in FreeCodeCamp like platform!!!!

Sir,     I am not able to set variables... I wrote in first-line [[int myNum = 8;]] but it's not dark and not printing.

My dream is to make a airplane with arduino

in custom functions, can you return an array as the output of that functions? if so how would you define that function?

Yessss plzzz Make robotics tutorials too. Im enjoying this course. And waiting for more.

Plz bring a course for Rasberry pi

In C++ you can't write conditions in if block like that. For a range of 400 - 460, you need to write :  light > 400 && light < 460.  Update your conditions and check if you get the desired result.

Ohh.Okay.Thanks a lot man.

And if you want 400 and 460 included in the range you write: if(400<=light && light<=460)

Arduino is C based so, volatile and static are keywords from C to assign to a variable i.e. identifier ! 'static' is assigned to a variable to keep its value unchanged during compilation or file inclusions. In C++, static functions are allowed too that remains the same or, does the same job i.e. remain static for every instance of its use during compilation of program ! 'volatile' is assigned to a variable to allow access for thr variable to change its value during compilation !

@lunatico5318  ok thanks lot dude then i got a another question that what is the menuOption  in c++ or arduino? What is the use and how to use

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  menuOption ? I have never heard of a keyword like that ! Are you trying to say how to create a menu option in C ?

@lunatico5318  no i got this ( menuoption)in a code? In the internet then could you please go through that code and let me know?

@lunatico5318  yeah it might be creating a menu option in c ? If so how can it use in arduino?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Okay, you can give me a link and I can help you with it ! Arduino being a microcontroller of course, doesn't have a display so, it needs to be interfaced with LCD Display like LM016L and then, you can create a menu option !

@lunatico5318  sir i havent save the link but i have the code which there was an issue sir i want you to know that in the code there is a  name char menuOption? and this menuOtion has been used in several places along the code so could you please let me know what is it and the purpose of using it?  This is the code  Include Libraries #include "Arduino.h" #include "HMC5883L.h" #include "MaxMatrix.h" // Pin Definitions #define LEDMATRIX_PIN_DIN	12 #define LEDMATRIX_PIN_CLK	11 #define LEDMATRIX_PIN_CS	10 // Global variables and defines byte ledMatrixinUse = 1; //Specify how many Max7219 led matrices are chained int ledMatrixtextScrollingSpeed = 50; //Specify the scrolling speed char ledMatrixStr[] = "Hello World! "; //Specify the string to be displayed // object initialization HMC5883L compass; MaxMatrix ledMatrix(LEDMATRIX_PIN_DIN,LEDMATRIX_PIN_CS,LEDMATRIX_PIN_CLK); // define vars for testing menu const int timeout = 10000; //define timeout of 10 sec char menuOption = 0; long time0; // Setup the essentials for your circuit to work. It runs first every time your circuit is powered with electricity. void setup() { // Setup Serial which is useful for debugging // Use the Serial Monitor to view printed messages Serial.begin(9600); while (!Serial) ; // wait for serial port to connect. Needed for native USB Serial.println("start"); // Set declination angle on your location and fix heading // You can find your declination on: http://magnetic-declination.com/ // (+) Positive or (-) for negative // For declination angle 4'36E (positive) compass.begin(+4,36); ledMatrix.init(ledMatrixinUse); //Initialize Led Matrices ledMatrix.setIntensity(5); //LED Intensity 0-15 menuOption = menu(); } // Main logic of your circuit. It defines the interaction between the components you selected. After setup, it runs over and over again, in an eternal loop. void loop() { if(menuOption == '1') { // HMC5883L - Magnetometer (Compass) - Test Code //Read heading value from compass float compassHeading = compass.getHeadingDeg(); Serial.print(F("Heading: ")); Serial.print(compassHeading); Serial.println(F("[°]")); } else if(menuOption == '2') { // 8x8 LED display Matrix - MAX7219 - Test Code //Note that this function is blocking the loop until the end of the scrolling ledMatrix.printStringWithShift(ledMatrixStr, ledMatrixtextScrollingSpeed); // Send scrolling Text } if (millis() - time0 > timeout) { menuOption = menu(); } } // Menu function for selecting the components to be tested // Follow serial monitor for instrcutions char menu() { Serial.println(F("\nWhich component would you like to test?")); Serial.println(F("(1) HMC5883L - Magnetometer (Compass)")); Serial.println(F("(2) 8x8 LED display Matrix - MAX7219")); Serial.println(F("(menu) send anything else or press on board reset button\n")); while (!Serial.available()); // Read data from serial monitor if received while (Serial.available()) { char c = Serial.read(); if (isAlphaNumeric(c)) { if(c == '1') 			Serial.println(F("Now Testing HMC5883L - Magnetometer (Compass)")); 		else if(c == '2') 			Serial.println(F("Now Testing 8x8 LED display Matrix - MAX7219")); else { Serial.println(F("illegal input!")); return 0; } time0 = millis(); return c; } } }

@lunatico5318  sir did you check the code?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Here, menuOption is not a data type but a variable ! It is used as a control value for if statements to display different strings and outputs at different options chosen ! However switch statements look cool than multiple ifs but I guess ifs do the work finr !

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  menu() is defined as a function returning a byte that acts as a control value for if statements to select different menu options ! It reads the data and checks if it is a character or digit using IsAlphaNumeric() function which is Arduino based function. Your compass reading won't show up on LED matrix as it is not programmed to do so ! Thus, you can tweak some of the code to work it out ! The reading will be on serial monitor and LED matrix is displaying whatever is written on ledMatrixStr[] character array which says Hello World !

I don't know where you got the code but both LED Matrix and magnetometer are interfaced with Arduino but led matrix and magnetometer are not used together here and in fact, has no relation as per code in this project! If you pass 1 to serial monitor, it runs the compass or magnetometer and if 2 runs the LED matrix ! At 1 , it shows your compass reading and at 2, it displays Hello World scrolling through the LED matrix !  Good luck ! And you can ask me further queries !👍

@lunatico5318 ifs  and finr mean?  Then sir is it good to use this in arduino coding? This menu option is declared as char so can menuoption be the any char data type( commonly any button in the keybord)  i mean  keypad symbols,letters and so on?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737   Ifs mean if statements . If( condition is true) {the statement would run!} I wanted to say 'fine' 👍 It was a typo !  No ! Though it has said character type, the if statements have conditions to set control value 1 or 2 ! Of course you can change it to character but it is 1 and 2 ! You are doing this using serial monitor so, it would understand even numerical values as hex or bytes so that it take input as ASCII values and then uses it in conditions . Character data type are used to hold bytes so you can change conditions to accept alphabets as well to change menu options ! The code seems workable but as I told you : LED Matrix and magnetometer are not related in the code ! It is designed to display reading in monitor and display Hello World in LED Matrix !

@lunatico5318  sir along in the code in one place   it was mentioned as Serial.print(F("Heading: ")); what  is the meaning of this?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Using F in Serial.print() would store the string or character array in flash memory to avoid consuming RAM while printing it because the string is constant and will never change later in code ! It is to save RAM for other variables !

@lunatico5318  thanks lot sir its so much kind of you,  sir i want to write codes myself but i m afraid of getting start  how can i overcome this? And sir if i got issues further could  you please help me ? So sir may i have email or whatsapp number if you dont mind ?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  The best way to learn programming is to master its syntax. Not the syntax of the language but how you structure a program ! You must focus on learning how the code manipulates a program rather than giving more emphasis on specific languages !  All I can say that there is a learning curve to it which depends on a person if you keep on working on it ! Also while using libraries, try to understand through header files and documentation and while using hardwares, try to study its data sheet ! Good Luck 👍

@lunatico5318  then sir would you mind helping me while im working on it? I mean when i got an issue could you please make it sense( help me to understand) because i need a good teacher and a wayforward am i correct?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  You can mail me your queries and I will help them ! I have my own study and work but I would help if you have some problems in your code of your projects !

@lunatico5318  then may i have your email address please

if you have ISR changing var a then you have to declare it volatile. else your main program won't know that a stranger function can change that value of a in RAM and the main function can take a copy of ram location a into a temporary register and won't check again if the real value of a in ram changed ---> BIG BUG  volatile tells the c/c++ compiler: don't assume a is the same as the temporary copy in your cpu register, always reload a from RAM to the temp register because some stranger code may change it unexpectedly/randomly

@Henry-sv3wv  gm  thanks lot dude😊😊😊

@lunatico5318  sir are you here?

@lunatico5318  what is dot operator sir?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  It is used for member selection of an object. If you design a class or structure, you will define some member properties/variables and member functions ! Then you construct an object out of that class or structure. To select a certain function for that object, you would use dot operator(.) ! For example :  //Creating a class class You {     private :            const char *youName ;       public :        You(const char *name ) { youName = name ; }         void sayName()        {std::cout << "Hello " << youName ; } } ;  int main() { You("dilshan") ; //creating object You.sayName() ; // use of dot operator to select member function  return 0 ; }

Its output is :  >> Hello dishan

@lunatico5318  ok sir then what is private  and public here?   And sir what is the meaning of *  i mean(const*char)  do we only use dot operator in making classes , dont we or cant we use it in just our usual codes?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Usual code would definitely contain classes if you would follow the object oriented programming paradigm ! Dot operators are for member selections not for creating classes ! * is a pointer and const char * means a character pointer ! A character pointer is similar to an array of characters but an array has a definite size so that, while creating array, we must mention it !  char name[5] For a pointer, it stores the address of the memory location where data exists i.e. it points to location rather than data itself and dynamically, could expand for more elements if not pre-allocated !  For example, if char *name was a pointer defined ! Comparing it with array, I would say that *name points to 0th index at first and shifts as per the data type it is of ! name will be equal to &name[0]. '&' operator signifies that it is referenced i.e. it is the address of the value in the memory! You can dereference it or, access its value using '*'. Thus *array will be equal to name[0]. If you shift the pointer by 1, it shifts to next location i.e. new index i.e. (name+1) is similar to &name[1] so that if you dereference it, *(name+1) will be name[1] and so on !

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  private and public are access specifiers that are used to define access for the member functions ! If a member function is privated, it is not accesible outside of the class and  if public, it requires only an object to access the function ! If you have functions that have operations that remain the same for everywhere it is used then, you can make it static and public to use it without even making objects but just by declaring namespace or class of it !

@lunatico5318  motor4.run(FORWARD); sir what is the meaning of this?  Is this dot operator sir?

@lunatico5318  motor4.run(FORWARD); sir what is the meaning of this?  Is this dot operator sir? How does this use in arduino ?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Yes it is ! You made a motor object out of a library and used its member function run() using dot operator ! I think you used AF_Motor.h to make a motor object and run(FORWARD) rotates the motor at direction you assigned or direction according to how it is wired !

@lunatico5318  yeah then what is the forward meaning in here i mean if the run is member function then what is run( forward) mean?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  to the direction of the rotation that you want i.e. FORWARD  opposite to that direction i.e. BACKWARD

@lunatico5318  ok sir  thanks then if we want can we make empty variable,  for example int x= " "  here i want you to know that can we put int x as above without assign any value or number then when this use in code can we assign values as wish ?  ( without  having any value) can we do this for any  variable( float double)?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Of course , you can define variables without assigning their values ! The variables are initialized if they are needed or, if they are iterated in loops ! This is valid for all data types.

@lunatico5318  ok thanks lot sir

@lunatico5318  sir i got a issue, what is size of function in arduino? How does this use ? Can this  be used with any data type?

Are you there sir please answer me what is size of in arduino sir?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  A function can return any data type or return nothing as well !

@lunatico5318  sir i ask size of function have you heard this before?

@lunatico5318  sir are you here🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄 please answer me

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  The size of a function will be sum of size of different types of variables of various data type used in function along with th return value !  If you are referring to sizeof() function, it returns the size of a data type or variable passed to it ! sizeof(int) = 4 sizeof(char) = 1 and so on !

@lunatico5318  thanks lot sir☺️☺️☺️☺️☺️☺️☺️☺️☺️

Hi sir gm can we use logical operater with boolean function and how to use it with boolean ? And can be used >,<, these operater as well when we want?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Boolean operators are either true or false... there is duality so there can't be used with comparators like >,<, etc. But they can be used for switches (not refering to switch statement) for a loop !

@lunatico5318  what do you mean by not refering to switch statement for loop

@lunatico5318  what do you mean by that?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  I was not refering to switch statements of C/C++ ! I was stating that bools can be used as switches to use it as expression to turn on the loop/iteration or turn it off by changing the bool to its true or false value during a procedure !

@lunatico5318  ok i got it but could you please tell me bool i >bool j is this correct? Or you mean tgis cant be used in arduino code?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Bools can't be compared ! They have only two values : true or false ! For conditional statements, use !i or i!=true

@lunatico5318  ok sir then what is the return data type? Why void is not repeat data type? Could you please give me a clear example to this return?

@dilshankasthuriarachchi4737  Return types specify the type of data type you want to return from a function i.e. get from a function !  Void is not a data type ! Void resembles no return type for a function ! If a function returns nothing, it is defined as void !

@lunatico5318  then what about return data type? What is a example to this?

@lunatico5318  sir are you there ? Please tell me what is return data type and example please

After connecting the board check if it is shown in device manager as Arduino at COM X. Where X is some number.  If not, unplug it, and see if anything disappears from the device manager list.   If that's the case, chances are that your board is using a cheap USB to Serial Convertor.   In that case, you'll have to install CH340 driver.  Link : https://cdn.sparkfun.com/assets/learn_tutorials/8/4/4/CH341SER.EXE   This is by sparkfun, and you can also checkout their tutorial for the same.    If it doesn't work, there is something wrong with the hardware you are using. Maybe the Arduino board, the cable, or the USB port of your PC.

Thanks for the reply! Actually it was a driver issue it wasn't downloaded so it got fixed now.

@helloworld9057  alright! Awesome 👍

Are you coding in the Ide or tinkercad's editor? I think the tinkercad's editor doesn't show formatting.   To print the variable, you need to write, Serial.begin(9600) in void setup. And then use serial.println(myNum); to print it on the serial monitor.  By writing int myNum=8; you have just assigned the value to your variable. So it will execute, but you won't see any difference. To see it on the serial monitor, use serial.print

@ashishbansal9  I am using Arduino IDE. and this is my code (this is executing but not printing anything):-  int myNum = 9; void setup() {   Serial.begin(9600);   Serial.println(myNum);   pinMode(LED_BUILTIN, OUTPUT);      }   void loop() {   digitalWrite(LED_BUILTIN, LOW);     delay(1000);                         digitalWrite(LED_BUILTIN, HIGH);     delay(2000);                      }

@iteacherarmy  in this case you'll need to connect your arduino board to the computer. Is it connected?

@ashishbansal9  yes, it is connected.

@iteacherarmy  have you opened the serial monitor? If yes, then there can be some other issue.   For time being try your experiments on tinkercad.

@ashishbansal9  ok sir.

@iteacherarmy  the number nine output comes faster than you have time to connect to the serial monitor. after you connected to serial monitor, hit reset button on arduino and a 9 should appear if serial monitor does have proper connection to the arduino serial port

why not a train?

There is no default or straight forward way for returning arrays. But there is one way by using pointers. I sometimes return comma or space separated values in a string and then use that returned string. This is not the best approach though.

@ashishbansal9  So, that means, a string can be a output to a function but arrays cannot? Also, can you recommend any video on your channel for learning about pointers and more advanced arduino IDE programming.  Thanks :)

@mominmehmood8795  Yes, strings can be returned because strings are handled by String class. Although strings are character arrays only. I am not exactly sure how the string class is handling that but most likely they must be using pointers only.   I don't have any videos on my channel. This is the only video I have created. For now, you'll have to google about pointers.

@ashishbansal9  Thanks!! appreciate your  quick response and great video!! :)

Right on time thankssss:))

Awesome video so helpful...

please tell me what projects can i learn with this codes i love to make electronic things i have made many projects like home automation and robot hand controlled by glove that anyone can wear and i am 12 years old

the third block will execute

1:14:00

why does the current increase when we have increased the resistance from the water analogy, current should be lower when resistance is increasing

Amazing guide

1:00

I am 81 and am interested in learning electronice to help me in application. I note that I can understand your course from the first session. Hope I can make it. Thank you.

is tis the same as raspberry pi, like are the principles the same? If not, could you make a video for it?

I cannot thanks enough for this video.

that "A joke:P" actually made me laugh really hard

Great video  Can u please tell me what is serial monitor

The breadboard got it's name from old times when people used physical breadboards and screws to build circuits.

Great!!   I'd like to watch more videos about microcontrollers programming oriented to embedded systems!  Good Job !

In the beginning, I thought I was studying physics class😂😂

Will there be advanced topic in the future?

So the comic strip in the 'A Joke' Section...the problem were the missing {} after the conditional statements...right?

Thank you

Hi good video and thanks 🙏, Any video about programs to control drone with arduino?

Correct. That's what is mentioned in the video as well. Can you point to the video duration where you see the problem?

​ @ashishbansal9  no, am sorry, video is correct,  i interpreted it wrongly and thank you very much for covering everything from the basics

@choudhary6964  alright 😊

You can think of it as a white board where Arduino can print all the communication taking place between computer and Arduino through USB in a human readable form. It can be used to see the variables which are there in the Arduino memory. We can also use it to debug our program. Bcz a debugger is presently not available in the stable version of Arduino IDE. It is present in beta version.

The UART hardware of the ATMega328p AVR Chip of your Arduino can communicate through a serial to USB converter chip to your PC. The serial monitor in the Arduino IDE is a program that can connect to the com port to show the text your arduino sketch outputs through the UART TX pin with Serial.print() you can also send serial data back to the UART RX pin if you have an arduino sketch that tries to read serial data

No. When we just have one line of code after a condition, we can write that without the curly brackets.   But the problem is that the conditional inside uses an assignment operator ( = ) instead of comparison operator ( == ). So, that conditional block will always be true.

Interesting

I have been a test automation engineer for over 30 years. I have no degree, but that has not stopped me from programming PC-based test systems for both verification and functional testing. I am totally self-taught on-the-job. A few years ago I was forced to start using an Arduino for a project, and WOW, my eyes were opened. With the Arduino I can access hundreds (if not thousands) of sensors and actuators and controllers and I can access the real world without purchasing expensive test equipment from National Instruments or other vendors. I don't think I would want to be an Arduino-only engineer, but being able to use the Arduino has been a fantastic skill to add to my skill set. Recently I have started fabricating Arduino-based PCBs through EasyEDA, and that has again expanded my reach. Now I can make robust test fixtures without having a ball of wires. I recently landed a new job and, after I had been there a short time, my boss said they had no idea what they were getting when they hired me, I exceeded all expectations and surprised them with my solutions. Arduino is a key factor in that. It is both a job and a hobby, and it is sometimes hard to tell where one leaves off and the other picks up.

I'm waiting for the next steps, IOt with Raspberry Pi and NodeMCU

Sir I want to make this video in Hindi version may I use this video ??

1:42:17

I'm getting goosebumps!

Please move into some kind of advanced topics . This is too basics but yet it is not efficient for the person who knows programming before hand.Please look foreward in this matter.

This is amazing!!!

It's a milestone

Hindi me video bana dijiye. Pls

can you do a tutorial for embedded programming like robots, autonomous cars? Thanks!

Indian English accent >>>>> other accent French ,German etc

I beg you, by all means CLOSE UP the SCREEN PROGRAMME LINES. IT looks like taking a picture of an ANT on a BIG TABLE which is entire in the frame too!!! Almost all of the screen is EMPTY and only a very, very small part of it is filled with program lines.  Try to read it by yourself those lines without fighting to read what is written!  On the other hand the charts are GREAT! CLOSE UP! CLOSE UP! CLOSE UP! Regards Jurek

1:24:25

how to make a pratical and useful projects for profeesionel exempls

Annde achande achar....... 4+hr😑🥵

I spend 3 months in college learning the same thing this video teaches in 52 mins!! I mean, how is that not a rip-off??

Very good course

Thanks helped alot

By learning this, what kind of job or career I may land in ?

You do not have permission to recreate this video in Hindi.

if you already work with electronics and are just trying to learn arduino I suggest you skil to the 1 hour mark. I wasted an hour over basic stuff at the start. It's good review if you're still brand new but if you regularly work on circuits and electronics its pretty much the basics of resistance, flow of electrons, and the various components available for arduino.

can you timing each section with a subtitle?   Thank you.

Can we use python programme language.

I've seen a few beginners lesson on electronics and arduino in pass few weeks, this is by far the best. thank you!

Thanks a lot brother.! This is really helpful, I thought to give up on Arduino earlier as I don't see a proper guidance for me to continue.. Now I feel I got a guide to continue learning. you made it look easy. please keep up the great work.

Sir can you also suggest a arduino kit, please.

You dont need any pdf for arduino after watching this video. Thank you for the video sir.

16:30 its 110 ohms.

Nice video, thanks :)

Thanks a lot for the course, and I would like to ask about - How and from where to buy electronic things? (Your advice)...

I was waiting for it..... Plz make on raspberry pie

🙏🙏🙏❤️😌

Very helpful, thank you for this course. Can you begin course on Raspberry pi also.

Can I please get your contact details

I will never be able to describe how much I am thank full  so this guy I learned anything in my engineer a carrier from this channel  we should all appreciate that he is also teaching us things that he's not really responsible to teach us like programming or circuits analysis thank you man keep up the good work you are the best literally love u from iraq ❤️

wonderful explanation

Really helpful 😊

I have just started learning arduino and have a hard time finding tutorial , and you guys show up ! Keep on the good work , as a student i am super appreciate your dedication to free education , and once again thank you for that

I love this academy I learn a lot of here..but if u posted ur own PDF file about the video then it's very helpful for us

literally didn't even skip a second! Great Course for, everyone

vbest arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

You can't program an Arduino using Python in the default IDE. However, there are third party tools and libraries which would let you program it in Python.

@ashishbansal9  , thankyou for reply

Python? Not on Arduino Uno or Nano (2KB RAM). Use something like Raspberry Pi Pico RP2040 or ESP stuff.

You can get any kit with Arduino Uno to begin with. Make sure it has some basic sensors like IR sensor, Ultrasonic Sensor, touch sensor, etc , some resistances of different values, a breadboard, some connecting wires or jumper cables. You'll be good to go. As you perform more experiments, you can start buying the components you need for the specific project.

@ashishbansal9  thanks

Thanks for pointing that out. The equivalent resistance is 90 ohms but I mistakenly added an extra 20 ohms while showing the calculation.

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

Country of Bharat .

Thank you brother

https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDOqoKtIRYajf7iuSLMxDfvxp_B-pBFqw

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

Really very good course , teaching is too good and i understand the concept soo easily thanks once again

Will it be easy to learn Arduino for those who know python 🐍  programming?

Wow ur simply amazing

What great timing! I just finished my industrial technician program in a local institution and I'm really interested with Arduino. Thanks FCC!

I guess I am not going to get any sleep tonight 😃

Following Paul McWhorter's course, but have been looking for a one shot video like this.

Thank you sir very helpful

Great Effort

Outstanding presentation!  Your video provided a great start into learning the basics of the Arduino and how it can be used.  I will continue to study this topic that will enable me to use the Arduino in the future.  Thank you for providing this video!

Sweet! Very nice explanation and great examples.

Indian technology is outstanding

Augmented Reality course please!!!!!!!!

I have to say Arduino IDE is really suck

You don’t need to watch 4 hours video to learn arduino if you know about C and basic electronics. Just buy an arduino and start building something, learn basic functions and go ahead.

There is a discord server for Arduino. You can join and meet some people and clarify your doubts.

the dislikes are from stupid schools who weren't able to teach what he thought in 4 hours flat.

BREADBOARD FACE-PALM: The reason it got the name breadboard was mainly from very-early Amateur Radio (Ham-Radio).   Bread used to be stored in a dedicated wooden box (this is before plastic-bags were invented).  Many of these had a cutting-board that would slide out (often with the loaf of bread already sitting on it, ready to be cut (also before sliced-bread was common; most people baked their own bread). Once you sliced your bread, you slid the cutting-board back in and then the breadbox could be closed tightly to keep the bread fresh.  So, it is really the cutting-board inside the breadbox that was named 'bread-board.'  And since most ham/radio/electricity experimenters did not have metal working equipment, most all projects were mounted open on a wooden-board; hence breadboard!   73...

Electronics = toys ...

i literally searched for arduino tutorial on freecodecamp a day before this vid was uploaded

I made notes of the course. These are the links (I'm only an hour in and will update them as I watch more): Basic Terms: https://docs.google.com/document/d/16CR5HQkrP1hyJ9RC_JiRZxlVlDpeZz8Ih0Q30w--47E/edit?usp=sharing Arduino: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XZXtvwKPDHYQoP6LHDy9dFjlmukXWae55G5DGZqRx2U/edit?usp=sharing

Please tell me is laptop is needed for this course?

Anyone can learn Arduino. But you can't program an Arduino using Python in the default IDE. However, there are third party tools and libraries which would let you program it in Python.

Yeah, right. With the help of an external library, I can do that.

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

They are working on adding a debugger, dark mode and autocomplete feature in Arduino 2.0. It is currently in beta version. You can check it out at: https://www.arduino.cc/en/software Or you can also use PlatformIO IDE for VSCode. Get it from here: https://platformio.org/platformio-ide

Thanks for making this. Others may find it useful.

Thanks a lot for starting electronics embedded tutorial please keep going and teach microcontrollers also ..

If having any trouble with the accent you can click CC and it is good!

Thank you so much for this course

Awesome I was just started having thought about Getting into Arduino Devlpmt

I guess I shouldn't complain about a free course, but -- the audio quality is TERRIBLE. What a pity. Otherwise this might have been a great tutorial.

Loved this one❣...Please make one for Raspberry Pi

oh, freaking great

const vs #define vs static. and, byte variable. Amazing delivery.

thx u alot

Thanks a lot for uploading this video!

@ -- missing an =

Hey guys, my friend is part of a competition on Facebook. It is based on amount of likes that the video gets. Please do give it a like and help my friend win the competition! https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=4089752354413015

This is something I've been waiting my whole life for!! Pls make robotics tutorials too!!

Been waiting for  years for this thx so much God bless u guys

Amazing job!

I couldn’t understand His pronunciation.

It would be great if you could continue this series and show us how to do the things you did on online simulator on Actual Arduino..... also please guide us on which  Arduino to buy....Thanks for your great effort.

I can understand other English accent but Indian accent is best for me coz I'm Indian too🙂

Thanks very much for this wonderful thing :)

I suck at electrical and electronics ,hoping this will help me get started from the very beginning.👍 Thank you fcc

I was as well

W•H•A•T•S•A•P•P•M•E  F•O•R•M•O•R•E•G•U•I•D•A•N•C•E   +1~5~1~6~8~8~2~3~8~5~9        M•E•S•S•A•G•E•M•E•O•N•H•E•R•E√√√√√√√•  +1(=5=1=6)=8=8=2=-3=8=5=9.

Yes robotics too

For me it's the worst... But that's nothing personal...

@oliveryt7168  for me western English accent is worst ...But nothing personal...

​ @oliveryt7168  I could understand him with the subtitles, it really helps.

Pls put dart language

This is so good!!!!

Connecting arduino uno to other devices is next.

I was literally waiting for this and my pc screwed up 😭

Please add micropython resources  especially for communication protocols like Modbus, CAN, RTU, TCP/IP....using micropython.... there is no much resources in youtube.

Finally

We want Raspberry Pi course tooo

This has to be one of the more useful videos on free code!!!

do next with raspberry pi .

Great presentation man, loved this video

Come to raspberry pie too... U r great people...🥰

I just love this channel ....the way u guys explain and have put so much of hardworking into this is commendable....👍👌 I wanted to request you guys if u can make a course on "swift " programming language as well ...it''ll be of gr8 help... love from INDIA 🇮🇳

Thank you!!!!!

We just need a raspberry pi course next 🙏

Thanks a lot

Jumping from introduction to electronics to microcontrollers without an introduction to digital electronics seems like a huge jump and a void in the course. Also, it's not a course on creating electronics but electronic devices. It's a subtle differences, but noteworthy.

Love u guys!

👍👍👍👍👍please continue the lessons

Just got my adruino yesterday and this timing could not be any better

I'm more of a circuit designer and sadly I have a poor foundation about programming. You're a real life saver, Thank you!

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

Please help me, I can't understand the nested for loop used for the stars.. if j executes once and becomes 0 again then why doesn't i become 0 too?

The Idian accent is quite hard to hear.

I'm weak in maths am I learn data science

I am waiting this video from a month as it's in my College syllabus

Pls add subtitles... Pls pls pls

This is a very bad course and I didn't find it useful. The presenter wasted 80% of the course explaining what is a variable, loop, electricity which has nothing to do with Arduino. The course covers very little of the arduino. I wish he has clearly stated the prerequisites for the course and spent more time with the main topic rather than explain what is electricity and what are electrons and protons. Its only at 3hours and 30 minutes that he goes into the main topic and then rushes for the next 30 minutes rather than spend time on the main topic.

This is a great content but instructor accent does not understandable

Thanks once again!

Please make an advanced videos about Arduino

This is amazing stuff @freecodecamp !! Keep up the good work !!

" Which institute did you Graduate from " My Resume ,CV : Freecodecamp / YouTube university of technology

The crossover we didn't know we needed

Wow! this guy literally started from what is electricity, protons and electrons!

i'm loving this ! seriously!

Hey, I develop Arduino based products for a little over 2 years now, and I watched the development parts of this video. It's so beautifully organised and easy to understand. There is nothing like this on the internet.

I'm interested in robotics and I didn't know where to start. I hope this video will help me out

I've been waiting for this for Soo long thanks 😊😊

only watch 10min and already like it, but 4hours, i'm gonna need many days to finish this xD,  maybe i'm gonna do something with my arduino uno, 2 arduino nano, 3 esp8266, 5 esp01.... love this channel

Awesome!!! TQVM!!

Make on IOT as well

Consider the loop with 'i' as an outer loop and the one with 'j' as inner loop. The code flow starts from the outer loop and then goes into the inner loop. The inner loop ends as soon as the condition "j<=i' becomes false. When the inner loop ends, we have asked the compiler to print a new line. after that,  'i' is incremented and the condition for outer loop is still true. Hence 'i' doesn't become 0.

Hey! Thanks for the honest feedback! Apologies that this course could not meet your expectations. Although, I had mentioned in the beginning of the video that this is a course for someone who has very little or no prior experience in programming and electronics. You certainly seem to be well aware of the concepts which are covered in the course. Maybe that's why you did not find it useful. But I'm hoping that many other viewers may still benefit from this course as they may not know what you know already.

@ashishbansal9  I think you have taken the word "beginner" too far. Beginner to Arduino doesn't mean beginner to everything else (variables, integers). Anyway.... let me not sound too ungrateful because after all the course is free. Thanks for making it.

@abhishes  Correct! Beginner is a subjective term.

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

what crossover

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

Can you help me

Then you have'nt visited Paul Mcwhorter's Arduino seris.

@pradeepdube1398  He really teaches very well and he also gives some exercises, teaches advanced things from arduino that suits absolute begginers. I just watch his series instead of this but i only watch this cuz as im beginner with it i must watch this little bit and focus on the series.

U are not on WhatsApp?

I don't know why but there are a lot of Indians in IT World

Does this mean FreeCodeCamp us branching out to open hardware??  Awesome  BTW, I heard that PlatformIO IDE has more features than Arduino-IDE

I literally wanted this

3 mins in and I loved it wow ❤❤❤ he is awesome... indian obviously has to be 🇮🇳❤

Por favor en español, please 😂🙏

Perfect timing...✌️i need this one rite now

1/10 a tutorial from an indian accent cant be this good

WHY IS IT THAT EVERY TECH VIDEO I OPEN, IT'S ALWAYS AN INDIAN???

Plz add subtitle 😔😔

Sir, Please  give me full course  Autocad software

😻😻😻

Sir plz upload course on raspberry Pi also .plz plz plz

tq sir lots of love from EEE dept 😍❤️🙏

O my god, this is exactly when i needed it.

FUCKING BRILLIANT.. I have been waiting for this for ages! Thank you

Anybody here want to connect through a group? Like in Discord or something?

I was literally searching for Arduino course a few minutes ago and they uploaded this. What a timing😀

I have been waiting for you

What a timing❤❤

WOOOOOOOOOOO i have been looking for courses like that!!!! thank you!

IKR i just started using arduino even tho i had arduino for 8 months but just started using it

@Khio890  having a guide at hand sorta gives you confidence

vbest arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

best arduino project https://youtu.be/zxlb22cTwHo

COOL

One Heart, how many times will you win ?

This was perfectly timed. Thank you

thank you so much iv been waiting for this so long

Thanks!

I finished my Arduino course just 30 minutes ago

Perfect timing

Thanks...want more on microcontroller boatds and projects

One is stuck playing the impassioned protagonist in one’s Subjective Narrative of Self🎈

😍😍😍 finally wait is over

the most awaited video ever bruh

Please make a course on raspberry pi....

You upload this a day after I dust off my old arduino. Very nice.

pls english subtitle

Ayy, arduino is awesome, but dont put too much on it, audio and video is better done by raspberry. Still, had a lot of fun with it.

I know programming, please make some basic electronics course

Wooooooooooow!!!! Coooool thank YOU SO MUCH!!! :)

which arduino board should I use as a beginner?

This is the basics of physics and I truly needed it thank you so much...

what can you do with a arduino

What you wanna say

The Narrative of Self is the story we tell to ourselves about ourselves, ie subjective rationalization. In the same way there is a feedback loop when we engage in self talk and not a genuine back and forth between two sources, the same thing occurs with the Narrative of Self. There appears to be a cosmos and you separate within it, this illusion is what leads to the feedback loop. Non-Duality. I have a short vid on my channel that elaborates. ✌️&♥️

this is literally the course on that.

Teach me.

Arduino Uno

2:24:53  assignment operator used instead of equality  operator

Dude this is so ironic i literally stood up until 3AM researching courses and now i find this upload hahah

Thank you for the video..looks like today is the day, I am opening the Arduino kit box...

This is for I was waiting for Thank you very much

Thank You freeCodeCamp 😊✌🏻

हिंदी में भी वीडियो बना दिया करे

Freecodecamp is on Fire 🔥🔥🔥🔥

This is a really helpfull one

Can you do a Course on Raspberry pi

Finally 😀

Thank you so much for this free content, it really helped a lot🥺..... Lots of love from India ❤️🇮🇳🇮🇳

Thank you for this course! I got an Arduino stored away that I got as a birthday present. Now I can put it to use! 😅  Thank you for being the most consistent and best software channel on YouTube  🙌🏽

Do similar course on raspberry pi

perfect timing, thank you for this

oh my gosh, thank you for this i have been waiting for this

Can I use a NodeMCU (ESP8266) to follow along this course?

Cool course 👍

Thanks a lot😀

❤

Uhh finally......

In that case, it will always kill humans

assignment operator returns true, so it works too. but yea its kinda stupid

How is that ironic

Hbd mate!

Thank you!

Same to same situation in my case too. LOL

Hello https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsgdG0To8eQ

bruh and I had to convince my parents to buy me one and wait for like 10 months to buy it finally or else I would've been watching this video when you wrote this comment.

Yes. Make sure that you add the board in Arduino IDE as it is not present by default.

I want to do both hardware and software things and I am 15y old

I was actually looking for this one.

I never thought that this video will uploaded on this channel

Better to buy it

ধন্যবাদ 🥰

Man I needed this way back in 2018 ;------;

Waiting for this kind of micro course on Audrino

Wow there are 5 comments that are "First" so far!!

Coooool 💪🏼👏🏻❤️

Great.

amazing video

The timing could not be any better. Thanks!!

I am 14yo I have watched most of the videos of this channel

Thanks man wait for long from your channel for this course lotcs help for me

First

Literally waiting for year's for this

I am first

First

First

Ok

and me 2005.

@Shomerful  And me in 1631

Right. And I'm hoping to see the difference between Arduino and Raspberry PI.

Literally am going to buy a kit soon lol

lol same for me @zeeshan hamdani wanted to start arduino right now and got this lol

Same bro! This semeter having CPI

@Jonesybabie  compute power and scalability

@senpaixd5796  which do you prefer? I have a couple Pi4s that I use to practice pentesting but I'm curious about Arduino.

@Jonesybabie  Arduino is extremely good for beginners. it is cheap,easy to learn and developers community of Arduino is huge.you can learn basics of microcontrollers and IOT. internet is filled with Arduino projects. I'm beginner ,so it's best for me.

@Jonesybabie  raspberry pi is more powerful and used in bigger projects

And your comment could not be better to relay my exact thoughts.

One day man will build telescopes that can see atoms

😂

Ok anything more to say?

no

Yes, most awaited course. Finally 🔥🔥

Same here

me too

That's sad. I just learn with out a video telling me how to code.

@holographicSquid  That's how I did too. But if I had this video back then I had become a engineer(just in sarcasm)

Exactly, my boy....I was waiting to learn Arduino from this prestigious channel...Finallyyyyyy!!!!!!!!!!!!! Love Computing and Ribotics

@naikganesh5677  yes bro finally 👍👍👍

Please upload this Tutorial In Hindi to @freeCodeCamp Hindi

@holographicSquid  I agree that you shouldn't wait for a video in order to learn but don't belittle people for not doing what you were able to do.

@paulmurphy2560  i didn't belittle anyone. it was a true statement.

@holographicSquid  Calling somebody 'sad' for not doing what you would've done is shitty. I won't argue over that. You could've just been like "you know what, my bad. I didn't mean to be like that" but you're intent on arguing. I'm out.

@holographicSquid  We're all learning. Although I actually agree with the sentiment behind what you said(I don't wait for tutorials, I find a way and practice. Complete agreement with what you said), I just disagree with how you said it.   You shouldn't call people sad because they weren't able to do the thing you said you were able to do in the same way. Peace!

@paulmurphy2560  I did not call him sad I said it was sad

@paulmurphy2560   Also it was you who is intent on arguing on the topic cause you brought it up and I don't have to bow down to you

i'd start with english

Wow, good for u

