Great. Lovely and clear, thank you.

OMG!!!! THANK YOU!!!!! You explained this so SIMPLE!!! You saved my GPA ❤‍🔥

so clear explanation, u're best, thanks a lot

What's the difference between using this method and the DH parameters?

Thank You man

❤❤

very very well explained ! congrats !

Hellou! i have a question, in minute 7:32  the (BtoA) R  it can be a combination of 3 rotations, when you have more than 1 , they multiply? Can you have more than 3 ? Thanks!

hi can you explain what kind of matric is this  https://youtu.be/7XZuy5NhxhA?si=83294k5J0P04-0X2

Hi I want to ask about solving exercise No: 2.28 about finding transformation at the corners of a wedge.

Thank you so much ❤️

Thanks buddy, this is a great video

Sir can u help me in designing a 1dof translational motion robotic arm

At 3:39 you are talking about frames. Here you illustrate Frame A, B and C. I'm trying to use what i have learned from your videos but keep making mistakes.  So, what are the formulas for rotating frame B around the Y-axis of frame C.

My professor from a reputed university uses the Ss from this YouTube channel to teach us the course. Also he is a jerk and dosent allow plagiarism which is kinda ironic

Thanks from Sri Lanka!

ja ja tur ja

Thanks for sharing this demo.  I have a question; what should we do if we are given a 6 by 1 column vector? Then we need a 6 by 6 transformation matrix, but I am not sure how to construct it? Suppose the given position and orientation matrix is: [x ; y ; z ; Rx ; Ry ; Rz ]; how does the T matrix look like here? it should be 6 by 6

Can you please explain Rx , Ry and Rz

Thanks a lot! I know I am being greedy, but please can you upload problem examples with solutions explained by you?

Thank you professor,best narration ever

Figures, a robotics guy sympathizing with the Borg.

i need pdf file for this course plz

Best explanation

3:19  You have no idea how it works. You just reading (taken out of context) mathematical proof.

Are there any example problems for this to help me practice??

plz reduce your intro section sound, it can harm the ear while on handsfree.

Dude this is so great! I was so confused after seeing my University lectures. Your video is the perfect way to complement my understanding! Thank you so much!

Yooooo you are good at explaining things simply. Man i attended a robotics class many times but i still couldn't get it. But you made my life easier thanks

thank u it is pretty useful , mate

Literally my exam is tomorrow and I understood everything from this playlist,  you saved my life ..thank you bro❤

Why is the y-rotation matrix sign flipped compared to the x and z rotation matrix, if all of them are rotated CCW? (at 7:39)

Thanks

here it is a video of a 3d rotation with a real  sensor https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-EuaJrT-IY

This seems like the special Euclidean group SE(3) = SO(3) \ltimes R^3 from my old Bieberbach groups and spaces of constant curvature days.

hi sir i didnt understood how did you got 3*3 rotation matrix

So easy to understand.... Good job

Perfect Broo I was struggling with Robotics and this was very helpful thanks a lot

you the best thank you so much

One of the best explanations for orientation and transformation in YouTube. Love from Kerala, Brother. Continue with the work, I would definitely follow your videos on Robotics. Hence Subscribed! I hope you do some videos on Quaternions, soon.

Rotation matrix can be obtained by product of individual rotation around single axis.   R = R_x * R_y*R_Z ....we can calculate R_x R_y and R_z if we know amount of rotation ( in rads or degs ) .

This video is telling you the truth in a concious way, but if you want to understand why, you'd better have a look at 3blue1brown's Essential of linear algebra and Angela Sodemann's Robotics 1 first.

