great Intoduction !! got me hoocked

Buddy is this how you speak normally, or it's just me who thinks you sound funny

I have an exam tomorrow ...and this series is helping alot

"I know you payed for the whole seat, but you are only going to need the edge." Coldest line ever uttered in human history

Watched the video. Please, continue the series!I am just trying to get into Robotics,but i can't now have access to hands-on experience and stuff,so learning concepts here. Thank you,you don't know how much this helped me! You're my hope to get into Robotics,thank you so much Zen Khan(if i spelled your name correctly).! Have a nice day! (You're literally my saviour)

Trying to get into Robotics, I'm a kid so it's hard to understand a lot of stuff but ahhh,i am not giving up >:] Thank you for nice video!!Really helps!

assalamualaikum, please suggest a reference book for the course robotics 101,201

Thank you for this great content. Youre doing a great job spreading the fantastic thing that is robotics.

Amaaaaaazing thank you sooo much!

Great series, thank you.

Great job buddy. That was useful.

It will helpful if you provide slides! Thanks for such a great content! ❤️

This is Neat! Keep going!

Thank you for explaining well. I want to ask, does this forward kinematics calculation use the desired angle input calculated from zero angle? can i start angular position not from zero, for example 90 to 50 deg?

please can you extend the video length upto 20 to 30 min , so that more content can explain! Thank you for your effort!

Very Nice keep going

Looking forward to this series.

Please continue this series! We need such content for robotics. 💗

Very interesting!

Nice introduction

Thank you! Glad you found it useful

I am extremely glad that it is helping you out. I hope you were able to ace the exam.

Hahahaha 😂

Thank you for such nice words! For hands-on experience, I would recommend getting yourself an Arduino and start playing around with it. It is quite inexpensive but it is great for learning robotics. I recently made a 4 DOF robot arm with it. Here: https://www.zainullah.com/project/4-dof-robotic-arm-mounted-on-a-mobile-base/ This might give you some motivation. You almost got my name right- it is Zain Khan.  You too, have a great day!

Don't worry, this video series is made in a manner that it is suitable for students of all levels. Plus, if you run into any issue with understanding anything, drop a comment and I will try to explain it out. Lastly, keep up the good work and I am sure you will become a Roboticist pretty soon!

WalekumAssalam,  I will recommend these books. If you are just getting started into the world of robotics, try starting with the first one. - Introduction to Robotics: Analysis, Control and Applications, Niku, Wiley - Introduction to Robotics: Mechanics and Control, Craig, Pearson (a very widely used textbook, a real pain at times) - Modern Robotics: Mechanics, Planning and Control, Lynch & Park, Cambridge (prepare for your head to spin)  These books should help for both, robotics 101 and robotics 201!

Glad you are liking it. Thanks a lot for appreciating the efforts

Glad you liked it. And thank you for taking the time to comment.

You are welcome! Glad you are finding it useful.

Thank you so much!  I hope you stick around for the rest of the series.

I am glad you like it! The way I teach is using a interactive blackboard so I don't have any slides that I can give you. But the videos are short (<10 mins) so you can review them again if you need to see any formulas or concepts.

Thanks a lot, Patrick! This motivation is all that is needed. I have already made like 20 videos in this series and I have no plans of stopping soon.

You are free to choose whatever angle you want. The angular position calculations are with respect to a fixed orientation with respect to the previous joint. So, in short, you can specify any angular position that you want the robot to achieve and do the FK and it will give you the correct calculation.  Here's my video on FK which might help you out: https://youtu.be/svyhLDAoyKc

Hi Prashanth, thanks for the suggestion. The reason that I try to keep the videos to < 10 minutes is to make them crisp and to the point. That does require a lot more effort on my part when trying to condense the videos since I have to often re-write the script, re-record the screen, and stuff. But I really want the videos to be bite-sized. That said, if a topic requires more than 1 video, I often break it down into two or more parts.  Did you have a look at the videos in the robotics 101 playlist (https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1YrgW7ROFofBqPGiWAmTqIwDc5SrzZrA)? Do you think any video requires more explanation than I have provided? If that is the case, feel free to let me know and I will try and elaborate further either in the comments, in the description, and if need be, even as a new video👍

@EngineeringSimplified  yeh ok Mohammad i got it. Thank you so much for your effort. really helps me a lot.

@prashanthgowdahu6016  Thanks for watching and appreciating!

Thank you, Ali! The next two videos have been uploaded and the next ones are in the pipeline. I hope you continue finding them interesting and informative.

Glad you liked it! The next couple of videos has already been uploaded. Have a look here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1YrgW7ROFofBqPGiWAmTqIwDc5SrzZrA I will be uploading 1 video/week to make it easy to follow along.

I definitely am planning to take it all the way! I will upload the next two videos tomorrow or the day after.

Glad you liked it!

Glad you liked it! Don't forget to subscribe for future videos

Hot stuff... I love this. Thank you so much.

Awaiting next videos

Great work Zain Bhai!

Excellent Video for common public to understand, what actually the robotics is

great video. excited for next lecture.

Nice video! Awaiting the next videos of the series.

✍Any Questions, doubts, or thoughts? Comment below (I read & respond to every comment). 👉Don't forget to SUBSCRIBE to the channel for more such videos & courses: bit.ly/Engineering-Simplified

I am glad you loved this! Keep watching the next videos

Very soon, in a few days. Glad you found this useful.

Thank you!

Thanks! That is the objective to de-mystify it and make it easy for everyone to understand.

Very soon! Glad you liked it.

Thanks a lot! I will upload the next video in a few days.

