😇good

Help full

Thank you ❤

Sir can you explain the working of vertdrive m7 working and parts also vertidrive m2

audio clipping every time you spit in microphone

Tanks sir💓

Can i get pdf link of this video

Thanks 👍

Hanzhen  harmonic drive gear , robot  gear reducer,    over  30 years experience

Nice one

Like

Osm.. everything is explaine it

I'm ABB robotics programmer and opretor working  I want learn more programmer work Online courses and certificate purpose please help me! Thank you!

Very good

All things are explained nicely

Everything about Robot in a single lecture....

"Consistency and Accuracy not attainable by Humans"....?  (Very Debatable!) Come to the REAL Industrial World. Find out that most Robots are Lifting Less than 25 Lbs.  The Real Industrial World requires the Ability to move items with Weight over 1000 lbs (in Three Axis) and Accurately position the items. Seldom do Robots actually accomplish those tasks. Humans however.... We accomplish those Tasks every day and Night. Proof?....... Search for a Robot that can actually move 1000 lbs.

You very much friend

I was able to score good marks merely by watching these videos. The way u have explained gives a classroom one to one feeling. Thanks sir. Hope u continue to do on other topics too.

Thank you Sir..🙏

Thanks for watching

Thanks for watching

Please share with your friends on WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram

Thanks for watching

Please share with your friends and colleagues

Your always welcome

Please share with your friends and colleagues

Thanks for watching

Please share with your friends and colleagues

Thanks for watching

Please share with your friends

Please share with your friends.

Thanks for watching...

Please share with your friends...

@MechanicalEngineering4u  it's ok

Thanks

Thanks

Thanks..

For lifting heavy loads we have other equipments also. I am talking about consistency, in human fatigue is always a crucial factor.

Thank you

Thanks.... Please post the topics of Mechanical Engineering on which you will like to see the videos...

