Our mobile robotic arm adopts ROS and visual recognition technology

My friend is building his own distribution of ROS called ROS3 or Robot Operating System 3asy

Hi I want to ask something as I am a beginner in robotics and facing problems

Thank you for your videos ❤️❤️!!! Helpful, very helpful

Brilliant sir wonderful but in my 3 dof robotic arm there are two servo,s i am not aware from python script please sir can you help me?

is it possible if i use arduino instead of raspberry pi

Cool

Thank you for your sharing

hi tiziano, these videos serial are so good. thanks very much for you colaboration, let me ask you, how about the drone video example using ROS by controling the fly autonomus way,an example cuold be food delivery or something. (in real and simulation enviroment)

Would you think that ROS with gmapping would work on a Raspberry Pi Zero?

Awesome topic! Exactly on point -- clear end goal, fun and short. I've just subscribed.

ros is "Rules of survival" 🤣🤣

How can secure ROS on an application level and what is a solution which is integrated directly into the ROS core?

https://youtu.be/UuRCoKRGUnA  Here is humanoid biped locomotion simulation on vrep. Please subscribe my channel for ROS Gazebo and vrep projects.

Absolutely no info about what title suggests

Nicely explained.  I have a question: I am trying to learn ROS but my laptop isn't powerful enough. Could you suggest just right custom PC Configuration to build...🙏please suggest

Sounds definetly interesting! Thanks for this nice introduction.

Will this work on my Linux Mint 19.3 Tricia ?

Great video and channel! Will definitely follow through your videos....

Just subscribed. I really look forward to future content!

You can connect Arduino to a ROS environment but you cannot install ROS neither run the master node. So no, you cannot simply swap a Raspberry Pi with an Arduino

I have been working full time on my course of late. But yes, that is something I will work on

@prandtlmayer  thanks, i will be waiting for it

Meh..

ROS and Security is an open subject: plenty of discussions on the forum

This video is the first of the whole series: follow the series, there are links in the description

ROS doesn't need much processing power. It can even run on a Raspberry Pi with just 1GB of RAM. However, running ROS Simulations needs a lot of processing power. So the recommended specs are a minimum of 8gb RAM & Intel i5-6th Gen processors. That is pretty much enough. If you need to do some high-end simulations, having a graphic card can help too... To know more you can refer to the tutorial series that I have started on my channel. 😀

https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=47&t=286659

Why raspberry pi over arduino for this project?

should i learn AI with  c++ or python?

Can ros be used to program drones? love your videos!

I am facing a problem, unable to locate package ros-kinetic-PACKAGE, can you help me?

Hi, do you have a github with your code. I'm using ROS for my master Thesis in Aerospace-Engineering, however i'm also teaching a high school student, who built her own robot. We are using a raspberry pi. Would be nice to have a working project to orient myself on. Would highly appreciate it :)

Is there any alternative of ROS for macOs

I had one question, if I can program my entire board, say Rpi, with Python and get sensor readings from arduino and exchange them with Serial library, why would I need ROS? Isn't python enough?

I am looking for a ROS tutorial for beginners, hope I can learn with this project.

Lovely video. ROS has Hector drone to simulate. ROS Melodic with Ubuntu installation is at my channel

BRILLIANT!  You've built a Donkey Car with ROS!!   I have a half-built DonkeyCar on a Tamiya chassis - but felt it was a bit over my head with TensorFlow etc... Will try your tutorials and give it another go :)

I've been trying to write my own publisher node for a school project and these tutorials have been a great help in understanding ROS

I have been wanting to make a little robot car like that using a Raspberry Pi with a Pi camera.

never hit the subscribe button so fast!

Will you recommend few books to learn ROS

Thanks a lot

Thanks.

When the next video ??

Thanks a lot, so interesting. ROS is going to be a real player at the game.

why not opencv??? :(

Interesting.

Because you can install ROS on a Raspberry Pi

Python will let you focus on the algorithm. C++ is for the real-time implementation. I'd start with python

@prandtlmayer   Thnkx for replying... But, can you explain it with simple example...what actually real time implementation means?

A code that needs to make decisions in real time. Like identity an object and make rapid decision.

You can use it for anything. Look for Ardupilot and Ros on the Ardupilot.org website

Can you explain a little better?

@prandtlmayer  my ubuntu cannot locate any package , is there any solution?

@mbeddedwindrobotics1726  check out my latest video on how to install ROS. That can help

It's in the description

@prandtlmayer  I'm sorry, but I don't see any github link

See the next video in the series

Not officially but http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation/OSX/Homebrew/Source

Python is a programming language, ROS is a framework. You are perfectly fine doing it your way. ROS helps you standardize the communications and integrating already developed packages quickly.

There is not one single tutorial that can teach you all. In the series I cover some basics, but always refer to the documentation on Ros.org

You can check the tutorial series I have started on my channel to make our own hardware robot along with simulation using ROS

You should do it. It open up so many more possibilities

Welcome to the channel. Feel free to post your suggestions for the next videos

@prandtlmayer  It feels me like you are Captain Holt from Brooklyn 99.

Actually I can't. I have never had time for studying with books.

@prandtlmayer  then how did you learn

Ros wiki mostly. Forums. But Ros is a tool. You also need a background in robotics to understand what you are doing. Do not underestimate that.

@prandtlmayer  Thank you for your help.

Love from India

Hi

I know, it's taking longer than I expected. It's hard to make easy something complicated. But I have all the recordings ready and is under editing. It'll be worth the waiting

Well, people voted. Besides, opencv is in Ros too.

WOW! I just started learning ROS yesterday, thank you!

Nice! Looking forward to this!

Thank you.

Keep studying, because it's important you go over the concepts by yourself. It can get pretty confusing in the beginning

