Dude this is Gold

Dear Raymond,   Hope you are doing well !!!  your videos are really helpful. I got lot of knowledge from your educational videos. However, I am trying to send data from VMware, Ubuntu 22.04 to esp32 board over wifi by using ros2. ESP32 board is already connected to Wi-Fi router. But, I was not able to send data from my PC to esp32 board.  Could you please help me little-bit?  Thanks, Simon

Superb video, thank you!

I love that the subscribe button lit up when you were talking about publishers/subscribers (2:36), that's so cool!

nice video

Thank you ! Very concise and easy to understand (with some ROS background for myself)

Hi Raymond. Great video! What software are you using to create the animations for the video?

THank you very much!

great explination

How to get jobs in this

I normally don't comment but this video is really well made. It will be great if more videos on different concepts come up.

I think i ve seen someone else video  having same content as yours..

What’s the best platform for finding useful packages?

Thanks very much man great explanation

Isnt that communication scheme just MQTT, except maybe without the broker?

amazing explaination!

The video is very well made and extremely easy to understand! Sad that this was not more popular.

شرح أكثر من رائع ... شكراً لك

Really, really good.

are you going to update the ROS c++ devoloper course to ROS2

Honestly, one of the easiest ways is to go on GitHub, and search "ros" followed by the topic you are interested in, than sort by number of Stars the repo has. Two of the most popular/useful packages imo are robot_localization and ros-planning/navigation.

i think so too

I will be creating a separate ROS2 C++ course, which should hopefully be out by the end of this month. I want to keep the ROS1 and ROS2 courses separate, since there are tons of legacy ROS1 systems which work well for their application, and may not benefit much from a complete ROS2 overhaul.

@raymond-andrade  nice , i am waiting

i never subscribe to a channel by only seeing one video, but that was so well explained and i liked a lot, hope you continue doing this kind of videos!

Thank you for the clear description of ROS2

Very difficult  to work with but its the future

Amazing

Awesome!

What a great ros video! Thank you!

How is publisher/subscriber different to mqtt, and server/actions different from node-red please?

Amazing, very informative precise video. If it's not a secret, what software did you use to make the video/animations?

Awesome video! Thanks

Brilliant video. Well done.

Been waiting for someone to be concise, informative and sufficiently professional about a quick ROS2 introduction. I think you pulled it off very well. *It was actually such a good introduction that I went and bought the ROS2 in Python udemy course. Will let you know how it goes.

great content

excellent

It the Best video I have ever seen , Its explaining it very clearly

thanks

great explanation, thank u❤

This is the best video I've seen on ROS2, well done.

Amezing explanation impressed lot

Thanks a lot 👌

Amazing explanation!

I can definitely attest to liking the software flow of ROS1 in Python/C++ better than ROS2, but that is kind of expected when going from a centralized development environment (ROS MASTER) to decentralized DDS communication.  Although hands down the need for ROS2 with many robotics projects is very high, and helps keep systems resilient in the event of any network disruptions (especially for outdoor/swarm robotics)

So I suppose I should go and learn ROS2 directly then rather than starting from ROS1?

@dabara2004  research the difference conceptual wise and just go with ROS2

​ @raymond-andrade OK but why it is expected going from centralized  to decentralized architecture

I used Camtasia for video editing / green screen keying and used Blender to make the robot animation.

It's been almost a year.... how's it going?

@wombatillo would you please reply back?

Hi, I'm currently trying to learn ROS2 from their official website however it is very content heavy with little practices to try out what we've learnt. May I know which Udemy course did you purchase and if how are you finding it so far? Thank you so much

