Hi Dr.  I’d like to express to you my very thanks for your wonderful videos. I am learning robotic a lot with them!  I wonder what software you used in the video Lesson 19 minute 16:42 to represent the frame axis attached to the UR5e end effector and on its base. Also, that software can calculate and show up the vector orientation using cuaternions, rotation matrix etc. Thanks en advance and congratulations for your extraordinary and clear explanations.

Hey please it's been long you posted content on this, and I'm following these courses eagerly on robotics and mechatronics

is this the last lesson in the course doctor mady?  pls replay

You're amazing. I can't wait till we enter dynamics and controls

At ~18:00 why do we not define any offset / link length for the offset of L1 in the y-direction? Is that because w1 is the offset from the screw-axis of S5 to the origin / the screw-axis of S1?  Could we add two "virtual" screw axis inside the segments that are described by L1 and L2 (let's call them V1 and V2) and then use the additional links between S1 and V1 and V1 and V2.  Of course we would not use these virtual axis in the PoE as there is no actual joint there, we just use them for the offsets as we determine M and the a vectors.  I think this could make it easier to calculate / measure distances on a real robot, as we could measure along physical parts. w1 could be hard to measure accurately because of the distance between S1 and S5 .  Hope the idea I try to communicate is understandable 😅

Absolutely a life saver! The best robotics lecture, well explained!😊

Thanks, Please make more videos, Amin from Urmia

Thank you for your kind words. The software's name is RoboDK. You can also refer to this repo for extended lessons with hands-on labs and exercises (you can do everything in simulation and do not need the robot arm): https://github.com/madibabaiasl/modern-robotics-course

Ahmed, thank you for your comment. Dr. Madi's currently an assistant professor at SLU and she's developing the modern robotics course for SLU, revising this course, and will publish more lessons with more hands-on examples. So, stay tuned! https://youtu.be/MANNYzmCndY

Thank you! Coming soon … We want to add some practical examples using a real ROS-based robotic arm

Kevin, thanks for your great questions.  Q1. yes, you are right about w1.   Q2. you can do whatever you want as long as you get the same answer at the end. The definitions of the variables can be different, but the final numerical answer should be the same. Plus, the robot in the video is a real industrial robot, and the robot's specifications can be deduced from the technical specs sheet as well. By doing so, did you get the same answer for the final transformation matrix?

Thanks for your feedback! Glad to hear that.

Thank Amin! We will sure do.

