This video is great. Would you consider doing a similar one for other Japanese companies like Keyence, Yaskawa, etc.?

very good video and very helpful

Wow this is amazing I just acquired a Fanuc robot and this video/channel are showing to be extremely helpful! Thank you very much glad I found this channel!

How can we arrange the encoder positions after change the batteries? Any documentation about it? we had m16ib and  R-J3iC control panel.

I know to connect to plc you use a laptop but what is the handheld device?

Who also agree with me that realpars is the best outthere in this field?  Do you guys offer AB plc classes or just Siemens  ?

https://www.youtube.com/shorts/QHHniaBD2mE

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaOE9TAFJI4

Just want to mention that first u get a battery low alarm and only after that you get the mentioned battery zero alarm. Great video BTW 👍

You explained it well, Although these robots play important role in every industry but according to my experiences with Fanuc robot  they still need to be more improvements cuz they are most sensitive to its parameters while, its easy to operate with Jog to restore it.

thank you. I've learned so much from your videos.

Plz making videos on robotics nd industrial automation

Does KUKA or ABB works similarly or could you have a video on explaining the similarities and differences among them? Great videos you guys have in your channel btw thumbs up

One thing people never mention when talking about collaborative robots is that they do not just get to the point of being "safe" without guarding with no trade-offs. They are much much slower than their comparable yellow robots and they are more expensive due to all the sensing necessary to stop the bot if it runs into a person.

can you make video on Abb irc5 robot.

Good information

Thank You, Glad you emphasized how important it is to leave the powwer on while changing thr battery!!  Learned that from experince.

Please, How can I know how much this robot worked since thé instalation (the time)

Work with fanuc robots everyday, they can be the greatest and most frustrating pieces of equipment to work on. But are wonderful when working right

Forgot R type?  I think,R-2000ib most popular type and I ever teaching with R-30iB

Thank you for your suggestion! I will happily pass this along to our course developers, we might be able to do so in the future.   Thanks again!

Glad it was helpful! Happy learning

You're very welcome! Happy learning

This may help:  https://classes.engineering.wustl.edu/ese497/index.php/Fanuc_How_Tos,_FAQ,_etc.  If your FANUC robot has an absolute encoder (most newer models do), then the encoder does not need to be reset.  Running through the startup Teach sequence should get you back to where you need to be.  If you do not have an M16ib manual, visit https://www.fanucamerica.com/support/robot and sign up for a login to the support library.  You will have access to all of the support documents that pertain to your FANUC model.

The handheld device is specific to the robot and is supplied by the manufacturer.  It is usually called a pendant controller, since there is a pendant cable that allows the controller to be portable, yet still attached to the robot.  These are specialized control units that are used to manipulate the robot in runtime, and depending on the model, can also be used to view and modify program parameters.

Hi Sam,   Thanks for your comment, and for the great compliment!   We indeed offer courses on Allen Bradley, although a smaller section than our Siemens section. Feel free to have a look around our course library, and to view our Allen Bradley section. https://learn.realpars.com/enrollments?q=allen+bradley&status=all  Happy learning!

@realpars  thanks

Thanks for sharing!

Thank you for adding that, Moiz!

Glad to hear it! Thanks for your support, Behrooz!

Thank you! I will pass your suggestion on to our course developers.   Happy learning!

Robots from ABB and KUKA are similar, but there are differences, especially in how the arms are programmed and reinitialized.  I will pass your request on to our course developers.

Thanks for adding that, Elijah!

They can go up to 1000mm/s in collaborative mode. I would not call that slow. But I agree that their cost is extremally high for what it is.

Thanks for the topic suggestion, Roshan! I will definitely add it to the list for you.   Thanks for sharing and happy learning!

Thank you!

I am not sure I completely understand your question, but these robots can be used in 24/7 operation continuously for weeks or months before doing routine maintenance such as lubrication and recalibration.

what do you like/dislike about them?

What's the main/hardest poblem you run into, and how do you usually go about solving it in your plant?

what kind of software controls robot? is this Linux stack/PCBs/embedded systems? How do they program movements and actions? In python/C++/ladder logic?

ooooh so that is what colors mean

Yes please upload more for fanuc

Good job!

Robot zijn vrij grappig als je weet hoe ze werken kan je eigenlijk op ieders platform staan dan kunnen we van kamer puzzelen

Very interesting video. Thank you.

Great topic! Thank you

Tesla uses KUKA BTW. Are you going to make a video about KUKA also?

Can I just say I love you guys?

Wonderful choice realpars. Can you teach Fanuc Programming?

Please provide more videos of FANUC! Thanx.

Fantastic

The operating systems used for programing robots is usually Linux or ROS, and more effectively now in QNX OS and QNX Hypervisor.  The languages used include R, RC+, or RPA.  Java, C++, Python and popular as well.

Thanks for your feedback, Muhammad!

Thank you!

Glad you enjoyed it!

Glad you liked it!

Thanks for your comment! I will go ahead and pass this on to our course developers as a topic suggestion.

@realpars  I am TSS of KUKA Robotics, so I got all technical information regarding mechanics and controllers so don't hesitate to bother me preparing this video  :)

Tesla has a number of fanuc robots including M2000's which are painted in the tesla orange/red. You are correct that they favor kuka robots however.

@HansolControl  classic two vendor politics, same as VAG or any tier 1 has

Thanks for your support! I will certainly pass your suggestion on to our course developers.

@realpars  - Alright, thank you.

Thanks for your positive feedback! I will pass it on!

