I really enjoyed this talk by Vivienne. Here's the outline: 0:00 - Introduction 0:43 - Talk overview 1:18 - Compute for deep learning 5:48 - Power consumption for deep learning, robotics, and AI 9:23 - Deep learning in the context of resource use 12:29 - Deep learning basics 20:28 - Hardware acceleration for deep learning 57:54 - Looking beyond the DNN accelerator for acceleration 1:03:45 - Beyond deep neural networks

Impressive amounts of information delivered by this lady!. To watch a such high densely packed informative video I had to take more than few breaks.

1:10:37 its 100x faster than FPGA ?? wth, wow, thats blowing my mind, i thought designing custom hardware for specialized algorithm on FPGA its the fastest way on the planet, is it really??

I used to be a Field Apps engineer for telecom, and she's certainly correct about the power problem with respect to chip technology.  Very likeable lecturer!!

Excellent

thanks lex

🗽

Thank you, every video you post is incredibly useful. Though, it is really hard to enter this field from scratch: everything you learn forces you to go learn thousands other things, it gets really frustrating sometimes. I hope in time this will go better

I don’t think the content presented by those youngsters is on par with the talks to the legends. You know what I mean.

I was researching about this on my own. I have been doing the network pruning wrong. I wouldn’t mind a hit in accuracy if my latency budget were met but now I think I can be far more frugal with the decrease in accuracy. Thanks a lot.

Brilliant thank you

Genius!!!!!

I'm trying to imagine how this structure will become half relevant as we move into UltraRAM which is as close to as fast as DRAM but NOT volatile like memory stick type RAM. What are the implications if the data can be laid out and accessed in place where it is saved. Suddenly the whole structure is no longer useful.

not bad

Great video and an interesting problem. Why stop at architecture? What about using different materials for specialized DNN hardware? Maybe using some lower power transistors that are less accurate but good enough for inference. I don't think the brain neurons are always 100% accurate and consistent, but the brain seems to be somewhat fault tolerant.

Trade off between number of filters on the 3D Convolution and a 4D Convolution ? .  Convolution is  a matrix operation (w*Imap+ Bias). RELU Activation is mostly used to provide non-linearity . I feel the number of Filters is needed to see higher abstracted stuff . For instance, The initial layer of a CNN understands pixels based information primarily for edges , cuts, depths. The layer following it understands shape , structures. The further layers help us understand semantic meaning of eyes, skin, ears, nose, face. But, How will the model perform when instead of multiple filters , we having more layers . That is, the information in filters in stuffed inside the CNN layers. Or is it done for easing computation while training ?

I am not an expert in the field of Vivienne Sze, however, she was an extremely good lecturer. Every concept was extremely clear.

REEVERSIBLE computing uses less power! But you need new chip architecture and algorithms.

Impressive amounts of information delivered by this lady!. To watch a such high densely packed informative video I had to take more than few breaks. I wonder how she managed to go through those 80 slides so fast and if there is someone that watched it all in one go without lose the focus !

So essentially power consumption and speed are almost equivalent for AI chips.  Does anyone know what architecture Tesla chips employ?

Looking forward to watching this, but shouldn't the Vladimir Vapnik lecture be coming first?

Me too. Invite her again.

Great talk. The Speaker Vivienne was clear and concise. Very informative.

While watching this I was seeing parallels with what I know about the Tesla chips from their Autonomy Investor Day presentation. The Tesla chips were designed with an energy budget in mind and so address many of the same things. One advantage the Tesla chips have is they do not need to be general purpose - so, to a large extent, only need to support a single architecture or configuration. In some cases the Tesla chips avoid storage and retrieval of intermediate data by passing outputs directly to inputs via hardware channels between successive computational stages implemented as separate hardware. A large proportion of the Tesla chips are used for static memory to implement what she called global memory. This avoids going off-chip for most values.

This is what I exactly wanted to hear. Thank you. I expected to hear about how AI chip is designed to minimize energy consumption attracted by her presentation title but lot of content is focused on computing algorithm rather than hardware design but great presentation providing comprehensive understanding about computing and energy consumption. Thank you

Excellent lecture 👏👏👏.     Things that we don’t usually think about as a ML practitioner but highly important.   Great insights.

Thanks for a rather "exotic" topic I need to learn about as an AI newbie, much appreciated Lex!

Many thanks for sharing  to the people that not study can afford at the MIT. Respect.

FastDepth is really interesting. Could be useful for many people.

This was a great talk, thank goodnees Youtube has a .75 speed mode. She talks fast!

what about neuromorphic computing?

I love this I will rewatch everything when I'm older and hopefully understand better and deeper I'm only a junior in high school 😖

Tesla hardware 3.0???

thank you lex, the amount of information you already shared is invaluable, eternally grateful

Thank you for sharing the lecture, this is the type of content I really enjoy.

The density of neurons in this channel  is incredibly high.

Great stuff Lex. Thank you !

I really enjoyed this talk by Vivienne. Here's the outline: 0:00 - Introduction 0:43 - Talk overview 1:18 - Compute for deep learning 5:48 - Power consumption for deep learning, robotics, and AI 9:23 - Deep learning in the context of resource use 12:29 - Deep learning basics 20:28 - Hardware acceleration for deep learning 57:54 - Looking beyond the DNN accelerator for acceleration 1:03:45 - Beyond deep neural networks

Agree with you. Respect.

She has very high knowledge throughput: 10Gb information per second xD

Maybe start by looking at Crash Course computer science. They give a good overview of how a computer actually works, and should give you more context for what are the different types of memory, operation and stuff like that.  Then 3Blue1Brown has an excellent video series on neural networks. A lot of understanding comes from calculus, but fortunately he also has an excellent video series on that !

Warsin I like your avatar

Try to watch the video slowly in segmented chunks, and then write down what you understand and don't understand about the particular segment of the video(s), and then you can Google what you don't understand and then get back to viewing the video again later.

Haha .. senior year here 😅 . . AI has no age cutoff thank god haha

Vivienne is incredibly smart, it is a pleasure to listen to her.

Ironically, if you call someone 'dense' in English slang, it would imply the opposite.

And Thank you Vivienne for the fantastic insight

Looking forward to watching this, but shouldn't the Vladimir Vapnik lecture be coming first?

Me too. Invite her again.

Great talk. The Speaker Vivienne was clear and concise. Very informative.

