Just a quick update: the data gathering process is quite time-consuming, but so far, I've been able to gather frames for 100 videos. I noticed that the task below is due today, which I haven't been able to start yet. I plan to begin working on it tomorrow after completing the data gathering.

Would you mind providing some insights into the expectations for that task? I'm a bit confused i can be gay for this man

Such an amazing video!! Thank you for such great beginner info :D

Hi, do you have an updated list of all the supplies needed to buy like remote, receiver, and the different motors. They are either offline or not available. thank you. My son is so excited to start building because of your videos.

What if you wanted to build a large complex bot with several servos or linear actuators and you also wanted to use machine learning on it so it has to be able to run python or something?  Would respberry pi be the best route or is there something better out there?

just started in combat robots and this video was very helpful :)

Great information fella!

So can you briefly explain the coding for this

W's mans

So those limited servos that you recommended for lifters and clamps, can you make those go really fast like for a hammer weapon.

you do be looking good man

Would a drone controller be alright if anyone knows if I take the receiver out of the drone and put it in the robot would that work?

Do u wear makeup? I’m also playing robot arena 2

Wow, you are a really handsome nerd. Don't usually see those two things together

That was a great intro!

Thank you this helped me a lot

thanks a lot for the explanations, very helpful

is this adam from cumtown?

Controller = The T4A makes a good backup transmitter or a take anywhere unit. Drop it, scratch it, leave it in the car and forget about it. This is what the T4A is all about. Not suitable for the multi flapperon, mixer, vtail, FPV, robot controlling hobbyist.

Quality content!

Your're a creative guy, make a harpoon battle-bot(also btw I'm not a freaky fish guy)

Start with a simple bot first.   As for machine learning, most applications use external compute for training the neural networks and that stuff, not the robot’s compute. Scope the algo and related compute budget first, then find suitable hardware second.

ik how the coding would be like but what did u use to code it

@haydenurich8482  Nothing described in this video should require writing any code

@CarterHurd  okay so the esc sends a certain amount of  power to the motors depending on the signal from the reciever and the controller decides which pins get power and depending where the motors are plugged in they get that power

Do you know how a autonomous car would work, the same way? Would the transmitter be something like a laptop or phone that send stuff to a receiver

But it'd be a program that sent it over and run after a click of a button

Or maybe a laptop would send stuff to a transmitter then to the receiver

yes, but I've never seen a servo-driven hammer bot do any damage.  The only Ant/Beetle hammer robots that I've seen do damage have used high-power brushless motors to drive the hammer.  Hammer bots have to impart a lot of energy into only 180deg of travel.

I do not no, and nice! Haven’t played that yet

how can you build a battlebot flipper using servo motors? thank you

I ordered the transmitter you have linked but it says there is no way to program it, how are you able to?

great video but take caution around brushed escs because a lot of the reviews on the turnigy esc say it's meant to control planes and cannot reverse

Thank you! This is so helpful!

How i mix the chanels in an ifly 6

What kind of kits do you suggest?

I fky rc planes so I already have all these parts. time to make a battlebot!

I like your funny words magic man

cool I wanna build a bb8 robot

Your explanation of channel mixing made sense to me! :D

Any links to brushless esc ?

What if im using Arduino

Now we need a video that covers arduino based RX and TX, 2.4ghz nrf24L01, potentiometers, power supply, etc for DIY TX, along with the sketch program breakdown and pinouts. Also... Thanks for putting this video together. Easy to watch, good pace, thorough overview, clear presentation etc. Nice work.

Can I build a battlebot with brushless drill motors?  Would you point me in the direction where I can about this?

Im really slow at stuff like this but i kinda understand it now and grasp how it works. thx.

Do an update video on this pls

Thanks for explaining it like this. This is much simpler than I thought. Every time I tried to read up on forums, I didn’t understand it. Thanks for explaining it so well.

Harry Potter likes battle bots?  YOU SHALL NOT PASS!!!

does the reciver come with the remote

Good video was wondering where to start since one of my dreams was to make a full size battle bot but this is helpful for making my first and understanding

You need a USB data cable for the T6 transmitter. Should be like 10 bucks.

@CarterHurd  Wow I am shocked you replied to this, thanks Ill look for one. This video is awesome by the way, really informative and helpful.

Not always, no - be sure to double check the product listing

Thanks

5:57

Thank you great video

Great video! Thank you for the diagrams too!!  Wasnt expecting him to be so handsome either so thats a bonus 😍

It was a good video but can I use a pistol grip controller

I need more information about the ESCs.  Should I buy 2 ESCs for single or 1 for dual engine? What does "with and without brake" mean? Which one should I buy? What 10A, 20A, 30A means?

Succinct, informative, and clearly illustrated. This helped me visualize a lot of concepts I've read about, and made it seem so much more attainable. Thanks for the video! I'm saving it for future reference.

Does anyone know of a cheap tank steer toy car with selectable frequencys?

ITS SOOOOOOOO EXPENSIVE...legit 3 of the brush less motors are more than 60$

A great video, stop being so tough on yourself. I got a lot from it, thank you for sharing ;)

the channel mixing explanation was excellent

Awesome video man, super helpful. Thanks!

I have a 4channel transmitter and I don't have a mix function so can you help me out a little with that

Good

I have made a ant weight 1lb battle bot out of an hexbug battle bot with stock electronics but lithium ion batteries I call it, the spinning disk O' Death

Great tutorial - 10 points to Griffindor!

Como logras la mezcla de canales para el avance y el giro?? Can you helpme??

Thanks for the nice walk through!

Thank you for including links to the parts you use!

Sir for the two wheeled plus the spinner weapon. How it turns in right and left?

Ughhhhh, no homo but gd those eyes <333

You absolutely can. Team Razer used the that style for their flagship bot on Robot Wars (Razer). Setting up the remote itself might be fidgety though.

What motors are you trying to control?

@CarterHurd  the ordinary n20, 200 or 300 rpm for a 150g bot

@burastaroii7506  Okay, perfect. Those are Brushed motors, so you will want a brushed ESC. They draw 1.6Amps at stall, so you will want an ESC with greater than 1.6A output.  You will want something with reverse, and probably something with a BEC (battery elimination circuit).    If you only have 1 motor to control I'd recommend the tiny ESC: https://www.fingertechrobotics.com/proddetail.php?prod=ft-tinyESCv2  if you have 2 motors to control you could use two tiny ESCs, or one of these: https://www.endbots.com/products/endbots-desc

@CarterHurd  Trying to decide between 3v or 6v brushed motors for my first ant build. I'd like to ignore a weapon and have 4 wheel drive with 4 motors. Is it possible to wire 4 motors to the Dual ESC without frying anything? 2 motors to one side and the 2 others to the other side. In your opinion is 4 motors overkill for most Antweight robots?

Brushless can be expensive.  A basic robot can use a $20 Endbots dual channel ESC for drive paired with some 2-3 dollar DC motors

you did him dirty

Bruv you did him so dirty

Depende de tu controlador

Fucking junky

......

Gay

@jnetwork3232  I said no homo do u not understand how this works

@bigfootjustkilledyou  gayy

This was actually really helpful. Thanks 👍

I'm so confused 😭

Really good guide man. Used to race rc cars but it's been a couple of decades since I did. Great tutorial.

Are you making a combat robot this year? Will u have videos on how to make it as well?

With the drive motors how do you suggest connecting them to the reciver?

This answered sooo many questions. Thank you. Now I build.

these remotes are p cumbersome, i want to use a ps4 remote lol

This is healpfoul , thanks for explaining rc electronics   now I can build my own verzion of king googly hahah

Se conectan los dos esc con los 3 cables o  se quita el cable + a un esc; can you helpme?? Para la mezcla de canales

Y la mezcla para que gire tienes algún diagrama para conectar? Tengo la flysky fsi6

Thank you sooo much. It’s hard to find videos like these so I have just been testing things without direction. This helped so much. I love your stuff dude.

Thank you so much! Im looking into building my own bot, and this video is so helpful. Keep up the great content!

What happened to your season 3 Battlebots robot? Did you apply?

Great overview. Thanks for making it.

Hi altapowderdog

is there a standardized or universal rulebook for antweight and beetleweight robots? this has proven difficult to find.

You forgot to say that in order to wire it correctly, you need to be eating gummy bears.

Ive actually had experience (2 fights) using hexbugs in the 150g antweight/fairyweight class. And they are do-able. Just. Eh in effective-ness

Can you do mixxing with flysky t4 transmitter?

This video was made in response to comments from some of you guys looking to get into combat robots.  This isn't a full on tutorial video, but it should provide a good starting point for those who need a run down on the basics and don't know where to start.  Happy building!

Battlebots is a show for 250 pound combat robots.

Your going to have to scavenge the receiver out of your ps4

Thank you, glad that it was useful!

FaithfulMC I was way too busy with work and school to build a bot in the short timeframe, so I didn't apply.  Over the last year I've learned more about heavyweight construction and would probably want to make some big changes before applying again.  I have potential sponsorship and fab support where I live now, but I'll be moving in a couple months, so I'm not really sure what the future holds.

AltaPowderDog do everyone a favour and make a 4 wheeled nightmare 🙌🙌😭

The rules are very similar between competitions- if you build a robot for one you'll very likely be able to enter another.  But, like you have found, there is no universal rulebook. This is because there is no standardized arena.  Some arenas can't allow fire or the floor will get damaged, some competitions aren't comfortable with hosting robots using certain pneumatic systems, etc.

I'm so confused

AltaPowderDog Yes, wiring can be confusing.

TML ProductionsTM Do you have a tutorial for this procedure. I’ve tried doing wiring while eating Chocolate but I ended up blowing something. If I could learn to do it eating gummy bears I may get somewhere.

yeah, just... Eh.  I can't recommend them because it's so disheartening to lose a match due to a disconnect

AltaPowderDog true. Havent experienced that yet and hopefully won't.

But using them in 1lb antweight. Your better off not bothering

I have not used one, but it seem like it is able to based on this conversation: https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?1471397-FlySky-FS-CT4-4-channel-2-4GHz-Tx-Rx

Thank you

If u have two esc for brushed motors do u need two battery to power the two esc?

What’s the best tank drive play toy with both joysticks

And is it possible to hook your robot up to a Dualshock 4 controller

@camcharcoal2815  yes you can use a PS controller but it requires modifications and an Arduino: https://hackaday.com/2014/03/03/remote-control-anything-with-a-ps3-controller/

K thanks

PS4 controller btw

This was cool thanks. I make my Stupid Robots with no robotics.

