I wasnt expecting a lot from these and at the end Im impressed. Thank you.

Great video  .. I have a question . If im able to connect 2 sensors and three actuator stopper to the Kuka robot's control system and can control the task and program it by teach pendant or offline ? or should I buy a PLC and connect all of them to the PLC and program them through PLC ? my Idea to keep it simple and cheaper to the industry .

This is really good stuff. It will help me for sure dealing with Kuka Sim, which has very little online information. My only suggestion is that your camera (your face) is blocking the controller pop up, so we never really get to see that window.

i wish i can program mij mindstorms ev3 6 axis robot with a program like this

hey squishy its Bruck from Twincat channel did you see what I did to your pizza oven? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I8fijPcGLyA  . I tryed it on beckhoff hardware and it works.  This looks like fun Im gonna learn it !!

Hey, firstly thanks for these series - they're great and you explain things clearly. Secondly, do you know of any good free alternative apps to practice on before using the trial? I have a limited amount of hours to put into researching whether it's feasible for us to code in-house and the trial will expire before I get to grips/have the ability to use the simulation thoroughly to fully make use of the trial period.  Many thanks!

What kind of mouse do you have?

how   to program robot  using playstation 4 contoler??

i want to that can i use the robot studio to programm my custom made industrial robot which have custom made controller . please tell me what requirements are needed to program my custom made robot  by using abb robot studio

i love u man:3 i looked for it so long time! big thanks

Hey, nice job!  Looks like you added some stuff.  It seems like you have a pretty good handle on programming these things.  Keep up the good work.

It is a 3dconnexion 6dof mouse.  I recommend it if you work in 3d, especially robot studio as the controls are not that great without it.

If you meant the noise, it is an original microsoft optical USB... I have a few of them as my daily drivers.  Came through sorta noisy on this video.

I can think of 2 options.... 1) Get the controller hooked to your PC and then use the ABB SDK to write a .NET application that pulls in joystick commands and converts them to robot jog commands.  This would be challenging.  Another option is to look at ROS Industrial.  That joystick is supported in ROS, so you would just have to glue some things together to make it work (I've seen it done before). The main question is... why?  You likely already have a pendant, it is designed to work with the robot, so you should use it.

can't be done unless your robot runs an abb controller as far as I know. try ROS Industrial.

