Thank you so much for uploading these lectures , thank you ! MIT

Audio is too low for me...

I just started following this course… I watched couples of videos last year…  But this year, it’s hard for me to read the black board…😢

Thank you Professor Tedrake for sharing this amazing class! I am wondering the relation of the Robotic Manipulation and the Underactuated Robotics classes. Which should I learn first? Or the order doesn't matter?

Lecture starts at 16:27  |  Hi Russ, thank you very much for your lecture again. Would you be able to give anymore details about your project at TRI? (The dishwasher loading kuka arm :)), Was there any deep learning used there at all?

https://youtu.be/-zwcf6jiFF0

Thank you Professor Tedrake for sharing the invaluable knowledge! This is my second semester to follow your classes. You do light up my life as a full time mom. Now even my 4 year old likes to watch mom coding and make the "toys" move around in mojoco. ^-^ Thank you again! I really appreciate! And I hope I will be able to engage more in projects and discussion as a long distance learner this time.

Lecture slides are not visible.

Underactuated goes much more into dynamics and controls.  Manipulation includes perception and AI-style planning.  I have students take them in either order.  Manipulation often comes first because it is targeted at both advanced undergrad and grad, whereas underactuated is officially only a graduate course.

Yes -- at the time were were doing deep learning primarily for pose estimation of the objects in the sink (and those networks were training almost entirely by simulated images).

@underactuated5171  thanks for the reply! After the pose estimation, do you have separate grasping routines for different objects? What is the algorithm which does the actual grasping control based on pose estimation?

Great to hear.  Happy coding!

Thanks for the feedback.  I agree.  We'll see if we can improve things for next week.  For now, you can see the slides from the link in the description above.

@rtedrake  You are amazing.

