Thank you for watching! To go further with ROS, check out those step-by-step courses: 🔥 ROS1 for Beginners 👉 https://rbcknd.com/ros-for-beginners   🔥 ROS2 for Beginners 👉 https://rbcknd.com/ros2-for-beginners

I want to mention that if you don't have 'FOCAL' as the codename for your Ubuntu 20.04 version, the ROS software won't work

hello sir, you said dont use command "sudo apt install python3- roslaunch" But i used it by mistake Now what should i do??

i am at a crossroad, the project i'm building is fairly next-level for a beginner such as me (a drone precision landing using aruco marker with px4 autopilot). So far from what i've read, people told me to use ros2 because ros1 is nearing its EOL period, the advantages of ros2 to ros1, etc. But almost all the tutorial i have followed use ros1, and i've been trying to implement them with ros2 (i'm having a hard time lol). so here i am learning ros1   note : i have finished the ros2 humble tutorial from this channel prior

I'm using ubuntu 23.10 can i install Ros on it?

How much resources do ubuntu  need if i am running an vm on 24cpus and 16384mb ram device?

9:58 My bashrc file shows empty. Will this be an issue?

After so many months I finally found someone who explains ROS in an understandable and clear way. Thank you SO much!

i am facing some issue while inserting apt-key

I'm not getting OK after curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros/rosdistro/master/ros.asc | sudo apt-key add -. Getting like gpd: no valid openpGp data found

When I try to do the installation of ros-noetic, it gives me an error saying "Unable to locate package ros-noetic-desktop". How do i solve this???

i cant seem to get 'OK' after the SET UP YOUR KEYS OPTION? ive checked for 20.04 too but its still not working

this helped me a lot, thanks bro

when I do sudo apt update I don't get the same infor as you

how to solve this problem  gpg: no valid OpenPGP data found.

Isn't Ros melodic the latest Ros1 version?

thank you

How can I delete ros and packages and do the steps again?

command 'roscore' not found problem fix doesn't work for me, still says that

Hi ros library is showing no relase file for ubuntu 22.04. What could i do to bypass this?

ros ubuntu 20.04.5 failed to connect at 80 sticking

please help

Just use "sudo apt remove" for that package, then you will be fine

The issue is that most of the development for ROS (and ROS 2) is made for mobile robots and robotic arms. Drones are not the priority, thus packages are quite slow to be released, and most of the effort is coming from the community.  I don't have a precise answer to give you. You might check the ROS Discourse website, I think one thread was talking about a ROS 2 drone group, you could check what they tell you.

could you do it

@pheebsbuffayy  i don't think so, would you mind giving me ur linkedln anything so we can learn from eachother ..

@amalkrishna6881  you can give yours if you want

@amalkrishna6881  you can give your linkdn if it is okey

@amalkrishna6881  I installed Ubuntu 20.04 version and it seems it is the only way , I hope it works for you too

@pheebsbuffayy  hoo okey 👍, i will stick with 23.10 anyway thanks

24CPUS is a lot, in this case just put half of what you have, that's going to be fine. For the  RAM, on my laptop I also have 16GB, I use 8GB for the VM. If you want to use Gazebo, better to use VMware Workstation, VirtualBox won't work.

Either you didn't locate the .bashrc correctly, or you messed it up previously. In the latter case, you can get help here: https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/comments/b4l7up/i_accidentally_deleted_all_contents_of_my_bashrc/

@RoboticsBackEnd  I was able to resolve the issue. Thank you for your response.

So do I. @RoboticsBackEnd plz, can you provide an answer?

yes i am also getting the same error, is your issue resolved ?

Make sure you are using Ubuntu 20.04 and not another version of Ubuntu

Yes the output might be a bit different, and also since I've released the video, it's possible that a few things changed for the installation. But it should work correctly in the end, and you should be able to install ROS (make sure you follow the commands on the doc page)

could you solve it cause ı have same problem it says get , ıgn etc.

try: sudo apt update apt list --upgradable and retry it with the command curl...

No, the latest is ROS Noetic (should also be the last)

in the documentation to install ROS, at the very bottom, you can also find the instructions to remove ROS :) basically you can do sudo apt remove ros-noetic-*, then make sure you have removed the /opt/ros/noetic folder, and also remove any ROS configuration from your .bashrc

@RoboticsBackEnd

ros 1 works only for ubuntu 20.04

Very good explanation !

Why do i get a warning of apt-key is deprecated whenever I set up keys

and a Robotic legend was born... (used your course in Udemy goodjob)

These help me a ton. Thank you!

Thankyou soo much, For the first time I am able to understand ROS after many courses/video

Thank you for watching! To go further with ROS, check out those step-by-step courses: 🔥 ROS1 for Beginners 👉 https://rbcknd.com/ros-for-beginners   🔥 ROS2 for Beginners 👉 https://rbcknd.com/ros2-for-beginners

And whenever I type sudo apt update, i get an error the repository jammy release does not have a realse file

@melonstreams9369  I know this was 4 months ago, but are you by any chance running on ubuntu 22.04 or any version other than 20.04? If so, you need to either use the appropiate version of ros or change to version 20.04 if you want to use noetic

@yaboijesus9804  realized this. I installed ubuntu 22.04. Thanks though!

ros ubuntu 20.04.5 failed to connect at 80 sticking

please help

