زمان الراجل ده عجز

Awesome!

Does someone can explain me the aXb Dot Product matrix shown at Rotation Matix slide (39:40 in this video)? Where it comes from ? (I know how to make a dot product) but I don't see here why we do this in this way  (I mean XB multiplied by X, Y and Z of A) why not just Xb with Xa for example ?

Thank you dear sir for providing such a impressive lecture on it ..

nice video lecture series..https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eJtj_sVkocA

Thank so much. But I think it is very complicated. Shoud you show the using of cross product and dot product

Use of mustard gas and chlorine against Kurdish Peshmerga fighters is well documented, as is research by IS to develop radiological dispersion devices. It is these technologies that are of particular concern to the security services but their concern does not stop there. IS has used drones for propaganda filming and intelligence gathering for years and last October it used a homemade drone to attack and kill Pashmerga fighters. Then in November a secret bomb factory was discovered in Mosel, Northern Iraq. The fear is that IS are planning to marry together two technologies, drones as a dispersal device and chemical, biological or radiological material as the dispersant. Small drones are cheap, easy to buy and operate and can provide distance and anonymity to their operators. As the first iteration of the robotics revolution they have proliferated on a massive scale with estimates of over five million drones having been sold worldwide. The same technology that enabled the smart phone revolution has now provided unprecedented access to the air. Improvements in battery technology give drones greater power, lift and endurance; cameras are now tiny and highly capable allowing distant operation through live streaming, and fast chips and sensors allow automatic stability and easy operation.

Transformation matrix 2nd row 3 rd column should be -1

fantastic

Could you please update this course? Robotics has developed and changed a lot in these 11 years.

Good thank for this course, are you this course in PDF file?

THANK YOU SIR VERY NICELY EXPLAINED

39:40 Can anyone please explain to me what the reference frame of Xb, Xa, Ya, and Za is? Because as prof. Khatib said before, a vector has to have a reference frame. So I am confused to which frame the vectors Xa, Ya, Za, and Xb are referred. Thank you!!

where can we practice assignments or examples?

If Richard Geere and Sylvester Stalone would merge into one person...  But enough of that, i love this lecture series. Not new, but also not outdated. I believe this gives a good basic understanding of robotics and might even enable for own own advanced tinkering.

thanks for courses. MR Oussama i found a mistake in calculations. 57.10 min on video  when you calculate AP , you found 0 2 2 1 ... But it must be 0 4 2 1 .. with all respect

i dont like lectures with very few real number examples... but good course nonetheless. I suppose ill try to find some examples

superb

Excellent!

teaching and concepts are clear and outstanding teaching sir

Hey. Hello I'm also just watching this video. We can study together contact me @ oluwaseunadeyera@gmail.com

Hello. I think the basics matters the most. But in case you know some advanced and updated stuffs please link me up as I am interested

Nothing changes when we talk about the fundamentals.

@yassineyoussef1  Thanks for your reply after one year! That's true for the knowledge itself. But there should be lots of changes in the way of teaching, examples, and visuals. It's already a good lecture, I appreciate the selfless share of Standford.

@jamesjian8868  Thanks James for your response. It s not question of one year, even your comment came 10 years after this video posted hhhh. It was just a reflection to say that the conference is about fundamentals which are useful to this day. Best wishes.

@adeyeraoluwaseun5288  Personally, I think Underactuated Robotics from MIT is a great course to step further.

@yassineyoussef1  I agree with you. Best wishes!

Ok, I figured it out myself :)) thank "me"

It should be 0 2 2 1, -1+3=2

Then you really wouldn't like a course about imaginary numbers ('cause they don't have real numbers in them)

Standford save my day  Thanks!!!

"Now that you understand I'm going to confuse you?"  Imagine Dave Chapelle, saying this line.

how do we apply this or translate all this into programming such as C++ or C# ? "obj oriented language" ? im trying to put a Humanoid Robot together and worry about limb collision while servoing and im not sure im getting solid detail by this videos , if i was in this lecture i be that guy raising my hand every other word outta Mr. Khatib mouth

A really great teacher , Oussama Khatib. Thank you for the course. Is there any reading material available about these lectures ?

http://cs.stanford.edu/groups/manips/teaching/cs223a/ the course website

I do have a question here, how can we know that there are 5 constraints in each joint?

Awesome course..very well presented course

Although this Prof is a Muslim but he teaches perfectly

Excellent video

very informative and excellently presented course

Simply fantastic. Informative and clear.

in min.55.24 homogeneous trans.  for (z (red)) value ,only should be change to 0 -1 0     tks ; every thing 100%

Excellent! Thx!

good course

Bravo Stanford !

boston dynamics: please stop putting automatic weapons on your heavy robots.

Google"CS223A", the course website is the first result

muchas gracias stanford,desde colombia

great, but please dont make a robot terrorist out of this learning. :D

just what i was looking for, thanks Stanford!!

+Frank Lopez  i think you use 3D arrays combined with softwares such as Matlab ...if you found a better method please do reply because im also working on an exoskeleton and having difficulties in it

Marlon Keppitipola what type of difficulties ?  i been just writing the formulas straight out no libraries just using basic mathOperators since no one replied to this Q for a long time now.  ever since then i been focusing on just prototyping small med size  robots including a humanoid i been on for awhile now but yes im not a matlab person i use VS2013 and Arduino/Processing for code tools/EDI's

Hmm I see.. Hmm well since you self taught everything and basically did most on your own... Could you advice me on how I should approach mine.... Its a lower body exoskeleton that supports the clergy and the disabled which helps them get back on their Feet.... This is my final year project for my uni... I'm doing mechatronics engineering... I have till next year February.. So what areas do I Havr to cover and how should I approach it.. I already know c programming well.. Know a basic idea of arduino and vague idea of pic... Some knowledge in maths as well since it's all we do in campus... And basic idea in proteus simulation .... Hope to hear from u soon sir

Marlon Keppitipola PM me your skype/email via this site just click on my profile pic that should take you to my inbox

i apologize for the delay ....i had some work to do at campus...ah im having difficulty sending you my email since i rarely use my google plus account...could you add me and send me an email so i can reply you with mine?

+Frank Lopez my friend , I am not understanding you much. But from my experience I can say you should choose a Simulator first that fits best with your work. Then applying these concepts in code will depend on that particular Simulator. I recently have worked a little in evolutionary robotics and have used the Bullet Physics Engine for my work(it is C++) . I can show you if you want a sample of it.

+Frank Lopez my Email is janzaibaloch786@gmail.com I am interested in what you are doing. Can we discuss this in more detail ?

+Frank Lopez Yeah sure,  I am janzaib.masood786 on skype. Maybe I can be of some help.

siti ali When we free all the links then we have 6 DOFs. Now each joint has 1 DOF (i.e. it is allowed movement only in 1 direction, either rotation or translation), so when we connect the links again we are left with only 1 DOF out of 6, i.e. we have 5 constraints in each joint. So, 6n - 5n  = n is the DOFs and we need lesser number of parameters to define the system (End Effector w.r.t. base.).

+Parmod Kumar how do we apply this or translate all this into programming such as C++ or C# ? "obj oriented language" ? im trying to put a Humanoid Robot together and worry about limb collision while servoing and im not sure im getting solid detail by this videos , if i was in this lecture i be that guy raising my hand every other word outta Mr. Khatib mouth

+Anand Badurkar how do we apply this or translate all this into programming such as C++ or C# ? "obj oriented language" ? im trying to put a Humanoid Robot together and worry about limb collision while servoing and im not sure im getting solid detail by this videos , if i was in this lecture i be that guy raising my hand every other word outta Mr. Khatib mouth

@FrankLopezx   This course is just basic, I'm a mechatronics eng student, we hav a similar course in 3rd sem.. wht u want to accomplish will require another course, the subjects a bit deep, u just can't build a robot after doing an introductory course which here discusses only the mathematical models..

What has religion got to do with teaching ability?

م.أمجد الفلسطيني idiot detected...!

you such an anal

oh dear what does being muslim hv to do with teaching.

What does his religion has to do with anything ??...

Mythili Rajendra statistically speaking a lot with powerty, crime, rape and murder.

Niels Ohlsen *poverty

+Robin Sayers how do we apply this or translate all this into programming such as C++ or C# ? "obj oriented language" ? im trying to put a Humanoid Robot together and worry about limb collision while servoing and im not sure im getting solid detail by this videos , if i was in this lecture i be that guy raising my hand every other word outta Mr. Khatib mouth

do you mean 55:58??

+Youcef Mahdadi how do we apply this or translate all this into programming such as C++ or C# ? "obj oriented language" ? im trying to put a Humanoid Robot together and worry about limb collision while servoing and im not sure im getting solid detail by this videos , if i was in this lecture i be that guy raising my hand every other word outta Mr. Khatib mouth

i don't know my friend i'm sorry

Youcef Mahdadi ok sowhat type of classes should i take in order to understand this videos?

thanks for sharing "cyberxxxpunker"

that's GREAAAAAAAAAT & nuch better than MIT free courses

I am taking a Robotics class this semester, but watching this is more helpful than attending my boring class. THANKS!!

Experience is experience.

after hearing the lectures, i am getting huge fan of dr khatib

Where can i get the syllabus for this course or info on reading assignments... and books required along and possibly a lab workbook? im not sure if this course has a lab section to it. but that would be great.

Yeah! Simon Fraser University Engineering, British Columbia, Canada!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

great lectures!

Thank you Stanford and professor Oussama Khatib, its a great material!!!!

what a great contribution to every robotics student around the world...thank you Stanford and Professor Khatib for sharing this.

The link of the course "CS 223A Course" doesn't work

i dont understand what makes the parameters and what gives them their dimensions and what relation is this to an actual object

great job

Thank you stanford !! it´s helping a lot

x2

