this is agreat work thank u

cool stuff i just found about these videos and i think its great

Love your videos

I love your videos!

nice nails.

He has three monitors, not three computers

2009?!!! And you're still making tutorials in 2012!!! Hmmm... Wow

you are awesome. ... thanks man!

why do you have 3 computers?

@Madcow800, Why on earth did u increase the voltage? That will increase the power and fry the circuit.

great job

What are some times that you would use a resistor for? Is it like when you have a battery that gives 9V but the component only need 6V to function? Is that when you would use a resistor?

American saying "penny" classic.

@OCDADVENTURES101 yes but then you need 2 sam ones and you are gonna have 2x 2,25V and then everything that is parallel to either of resistors will have 2,25V. Sry for the late response.

Im puting Leds in my speakers in my car but i dont noe which Resistors should i get 1/2w  or sumthing esle ??.because wen ever i turn the music  loud the leds dies.

The difference between 1/2 and 1/4 Watt resistors is their ability to carry current and withstand/dissipate heat as curent passes throughthem.  Surface mount refers to the method of soldering them to a board. Beginners should use the through hole mounting which requires wires.

Nice to see you are taking a total beginner approach set of tutorials. I'll be awaiting the later ones though, considering this stuff is like standard grade physics.  I actually have a few robots that I used to build when I was a child from a magazine, but I never got a few components, hopefully after watching the end of your tutorial and my increased knowledge of electronics I can fix it up ^^.

thanks man im uploading 2 more videos on resistors now, one on how to test using a multimeter and one on how to use the color bands

Good video.  You might want to go over the color bands and how they can be used to identify overall resistance and tolerance - or at least mention it.  As far as tolerance bands, you want to look for a gold band (which indicates 5% tolerance).  Silver is 10% and no band is 20%.  btw - the tolerance is total tolerance, not +/-.  So a 5% tolerance on a 100 ohm resistor is actually 97.5 to 102.5 ohms.  Cheers.  Keep em coming.

sec

