Thanks for watching, did you like this video? Show me how much by hitting that thumbs up button and let me know what topic you want me to do next in the comments below.

Loved the memes LOL

Crops farming you say, in hard to get areas you say

Go to sleep brooo , u don't understand anything 😁😂😂😂

"Using the power of calculus..."  THE POWER OF CALCULUS COMPELS YOU!

any good online resources to understand robotic manipulation in depth ?

Help Pls: 1.	In what shapes and sizes are robots come? 2.	In what spheres do people use robots? 3.	How many degrees of freedom does simple manipulator have? 4.	By what the position of second joint is affected? 5.	Write down the General Forward Kinematics Equation, please.

Siraj: Just don't expect a bipedal robot to know how to balance. Atlas: Hold my transmission lubricant.

Very good lecture for robotics and really recommended. Can you Mr. Siraj provide me a good text book and lecture notes.thank you very much

Very cool video. Thank you!!!

Clearly, you have very little idea about robot manipulation. Please read some books. There are plenty in this domain.

Informative video, Please make video on FUTURE OF ROBOTICS if possible. Thanks

4:00 assassin's creed black flags animus...

thank you for robot video

This is an outstanding introduction to robotics.  I've watched hours of lectures from some of the big unis and you've told me more in 10 minutes than any of them.  Great explanation.  Will have to give it a go.

can someone please tell me how to run the code please?

Now I understand why I hated and didn't study kinematics in my pre college

in this channel, it is the first time that i get benefit of  be studied mechanical engineering.

Robots are just way to underated, we can't start a talk about it without sound science fiction. Robots can make stuff happen in the real world and their forward kinematics are way to hard to interpret on a space diagram in control theory,  no wonder why of my first statement... But inverse kinematics. The future is out there, waiting...

Hurtenberg, I'm pretty sure it is pronounced Hart-enberg.

cool video, I recommend you check ROS, Robot Operational System, open source

does exist negative error 9:00=P'?

was waiting all video to see your script in action! but there was no demo at the end

Siraj i want to start ai but I am 12 and don’t have much math skills I am still only in pre algebra how do I start i already know python and thank you for replying

i'm pretty sure you're a robot. your calculated hand movements give it away

Domain randomization based RL would be a good next "robotic" topic.

Wow thanks siraj!

Man, that gradient descent 😉

need  humor and rap,  do not forget them

Since you are already doing robots, why not try a robotic vehicle like DonkeyCar in the physical world.

I love ur channel , I did the 100 days ML and now working on RL, plz let me know how to be the DEAN of SCHOOL OF AI 🖤

Thanks for watching, did you like this video? Show me how much by hitting that thumbs up button and let me know what topic you want me to do next in the comments below.

I think the best way would be RL approach. The state is the arm/target positions and, action is the motor rotation values. Plus couple of hours of training.

How can i control robotic arm for pick and place action using deep learning for making it capable of teaching itself to pick and place.

Can you post more video on it

Love you bro

Great video thank you for share with us

I'm 49 years old.  I wish I was about 20.  There's just too much to learn!

can you please or anyone do realtime Human action/activity recognition with 2 stream 3d CNN (Live Webcam)

Brazil in tha house!

He does mention it in other videos, will have to have a go.

You should probably learn how to program in Python. Then you will be able to use AI libraries without needing to understand all the maths involved.   Good luck!

read learn python the hard way

There is always too much to learn. I'm saying this because I'm in my 20s and I often wish I was younger. So, age doesn't really matter you know....

when you will be 69, you gonna say this again, so why to waste time on this, just start it today

Who else is crying for python

❤️

4 in the morning. Can't sleep. Watching Siraj.

If you want to give someone credit on Github you should fork there source code instead of stealing it.

I'm currently building a 3DoF robot. Well, the robot is built now I play around with the code to learn to code :)  So far I've written a program that lets you program the robot's motion via a touchscreen.  #Arduino

Nice video about women. Good job.

Top 10

Wow! Mind expanding here! Thank You! Nice work!

hey Siraj, thanks for the great video. Any chance we can get a video on Inverse Reinforcement learning? I am a mechatronics engineer and inverse reinforcement learning look like a great way to predict future driver behaviours for self-driving cars.

Algeria here 😉

1st

hey siraj

Rishik Mourya  yeah python is not that good People comparing python with java should really dont know the supremacy of java.. I was one of them.. So I'm crying coz of choosing python over java 6 months ago

I gave them credit at the very top of the readme? And I needed to link to the JavaScript version, which has the simulator

So fork it then modify the "README". You're bragging about how you are top ten followed developer but your using other peoples work as your own. People fork your source code and modify it about it makes you look credible. You should do the same to others. Since you like to teach so much you should make a video on giving real developers acknowledgement by explaining the importance of forking. https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/    https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/

People who fork my repository are forking the credits as well. I have never once used code where I didn’t credit the author in the readme. I can make a video about GitHub and include forking, sure. Thanks for the feedback

@SirajRaval  They are not forking the original repo because you didn't fork the original repo. that's like you copying someone blockchain and make your own blockchain.  Everyone will be using your blockchain instead of the original. just giving credit on the README isn't good enough for using someone code. I hope you do your research and understand what I'm getting at.   Your videos are great they really bring the research of computer science to light and it gives regular people the ability to see the latest technology and innovations happening here.

Oddly enough I couldn't figure out an easy way to fork a repo to an organization on github... which isn't Siraj's situation at all as he's just cloning it to his personal github where there is a really easy way to fork a repo but that was the situation where I kind of had to "steal it" and then give credits in the readme rather than just forking it.

@beskamir5977   This is why I recommended Siraj to make a video on it because people like you dont know how to fork. its a button in the top right corner that says fork.... also in one of my earlier comments I shared links on how to fork.

That only forks it to my github account... what if I want to fork it to an organization I'm a part of?  Edit: nvm, it pops up a thing asking which org I want to fork it to. I should have tried that after I made an org not before.

Hey cut the bullmanure and let us all be forgotten about recognition, a truly remarkable effort it's to do a lot of work and I believe it's enough spreading some knowledge rather than rambling about it. Why you just don't copy the description and have enough. Your discussion had been address you can't do anything else. You just mind because of "simple" JavaScript lol

K

J

Be grateful the he's teaching such awesome concepts for free.... This is for educational purposes so doesn't matter...

its coming in a few weeks

