This has got to be one of the best explanations i've ever seen.  So layman's.

I love when the explanations are so clear... good teacher over here

i actually read the stuff you write, like "If anybody actually reads the stuff I write here, please leave a comment. Thanks."

This dude is awesome and surprisingly recent, god has sent me this man

Thank you for this simple explanation.  I've looked for days for something like this.

Could not have explained and demoed this video any better. Nice job!

Very helpful, I was looking for a good tutorial !

Thanks. I really love this channel.

Very comprehensive and straight to the point, thanks for the math as well!

Excellent Explanation!

I love your videos! Greats subjects, easy to understand, always something to learn, 💪💪

you should voice creepypastas, you have a a lot of potential for it

Simple but important in the hobby!

Very clearly explained. Thanks.

Excellent Explanation

Thank you. Neat and quick.

I love this channel. I'm watching all your vids,  lol. Binging on electronics.

I miss your videos. Hope all is well.

I have seen many videos on filtre, they were all Quantum physic or red riding hoot so learned nothing! Your video made all the difference, now I do understand it clearly!! Thanks:-)

very intuitive

Hi! I've been trying to find your LPF filter video but, I can't find it. Can you advise.

+timmahtown Thanks, your the first

i also watch and really like your videos. you are like an electronics jedi, and im fudging around trying to make stuff work. thanks so much for the vids bigthumbsup

Nice explanation...!

Very well explained, thank you so much!

Great info! Thank you! It would also be helpful if you could link the first two vids in the description. 🙏

Nice explanation. Working on an intercom project that requires us to build a bandpass filter for human voice frequency

excellent!

> If anybody actually reads the stuff I write here, please leave a comment. Thanks.
I did. :)

you are awsome......

I am from India really awesome circuit.....

You can download detailed work steps.  Thank you

i finaly get it

Thank you sir

You've done it again! Excellent explanation of bandpass filters. I did some digging in old text books and read up on them again. Thanks as usual!

All very clear information, very helpful. One criticism is the aggressive gating on the audio makes it hard to concentrate; what with the abrupt silence between sentences. Thanks for the upload!

very good video! it gave me a lot. we have a project about bandpass filter in our school and this was really instructive.

Dude that noise gate on your mic is KILLING me. 😩

Thumb nail said.    All in the math so I wanted to see the math and you never did math

Nice video. I am going to try to build a set of HF bandpass filters for a low power radio (IC-705) so I don't overload it when I use my IC-7610 and amp on a different band.

Circuits giving you a headache?  Look up: 'Circuit Solver' by Phasor Systems on Google Play.

Very cool 😎

I love the way you explained and demonstrated it, i want to ask you, can we use this circuit as a filter of 4G signal that interference to TV frequency? need your advice brother. keep up the good work .

+George Chambers glad you liked it buddy

Thanks

It's not complicated except pico F, nano F, micro F and finding those.

+J. Clowers Thank you

Loved the equations and showing how it all works on the oscilloscope. I came to your site because I wanted to build a band pass filter for the frequency range of 43 KHZ to 46.8 KHZ. I wanted to amplify a magnetic field using transformer wire wrapped around a small steel collar about 100 turns or so. Would a 9 volt battery be safe to use if C1 is 100 nF, R1 = 37 ohms, C2 = 1 nF, and R2 = 3402 ohms. I was planning on adding this onto the end of a pinpointer that detects metal and move it just into position so that once it stops beeping I have it locked down in place. I may be able to add a potentiometer in series just before C1 if that would lower the voltage going into the circuit. I just hope that it doesn't change to band pass filter settings with these values in place. I was hoping to extend the range of it picking metal up instead of one inch extra with just the collar of metal by itself to a few more inches. if that works to add a coating around it that will harden up, and make all the electronic parts water proofed and held together. then run the wires out with the potentiometer further away on a plastic pole. Unless you think that I don't need the potentiometer and just hook it up to a 9 volt battery at full power? I don't know if the field will be too strong and make the device start beeping because the magnetic field got too strong by the pinpointer. So I got to make sure I can lower the strength of the field if need be.

Design a 2nd order active BSF which will stop the signals of frequency range from 1KHz to 5KHz.

Im trying to figure it how to make 433mhz bpf and this is where i start

I have to make 3rd order band pass filter....guide me

This is a great explanation! I'm trying to build a bandpass filter for 87.5 MHz with a bandwidth of 200 KHz for radio broadcasting, and I'm curious as to how I would go about obtaining the specific components required. 

I know I need a 100nF capacitor, a 1nF capacitor, a 2‎Ω resistor, and a 0.02Ω resistor. Is there a place I can go to buy these online?

When to use an inductor instead of a resistor? And how to determine input resistance for 50ohm systems?

Build a deesser 😂

Hi can you make video on one port and two port network synthesis pratically, i'm confused how it's applied on circuit designing

At around 1:35 you say the low pass attenuates everything above the line which you marked as someone else noted as 0db which should be 3db.  Doesn't a low pass filter pass low frequencies and attenuates frequencies  above the cutoff frequency?

Hi, I am currently using an active band pass filter which uses a non inverting amplifier between the passive high pass and passive low pass filter. Is there a reason for the ranges to not be very close to the calculated values and is there a way to improve the cutoff frequency ranges?

I think your gate is a bit fast

So, it’s like a guitar compressor pedal?

How can you create a Far UVc 222 nm bandpass filter?

Wouldn't the 3-dB point of the high-pass portion be about 2khz because of the thevenin equivalent resistance?

Is the black wire from the function generator connected to ground?

the resistor is not necessarily placed in the signal! it makes nonsense because the resistor itself will reduce all the signal strength

Hello, where can I find the report on the experience of tools and work steps and how the department works

So would there be a difference in circuitry between a Butterworth and Chebyshev filter? Which would this filter int he video classify as? +learnelectronics

Hello, thx for this clear explanation. Have some questions. For a project I need to analize about 5 frequence bands between 100-600 Hz. In order to sharpen the separation is it possible to cascede 2 or more band pass circuits?
Andrea

So you don't need an OpAmp for this? Whats the difference between your circuit and the OpAmp version?

Hi. Can you pleas design a bandpass filter for qo100 satellite frequency range 2400mhz to 2500mhz

question on audio amplification go before or after pre amplification?

Dose wattage matter? My speaker is 1000 watts so do I need more components?

Sir i have to design 1khz-10khz band pass which capacitance and resistances should i take

Can you design 2400mhz to 2450mhz band pas filter for me to continue my Qo100

Can you mention if it is a 1st or 2nd order of bpf?

Loved your videos on the pass filters. You make it look so simple and elegant. How about a video that combines your pass filter videos into a graphic equalizer?  I'm unsure how to run an audio signal (3.5mm headphone jack) into 5 pass filters(LBP, BP, BP, BP, HBP) and then capture the individual outputs with an Arduino using analogRead on 5 separate pins.  I guess my question is how to prevent the filters from interacting with each other if they're all being fed the same audio source. Diodes? :/

What was the input voltage

Thanks for the great video, I have a simple question, 
Is it possible to build a band-pass filter with two resistors, one capacitor and one inductor? 
if it's possible, explain it please.

Explain bandpass vs notch filter

So why am I building toroids for my filters when I can just use resistors? I'm a new ham so to speak, so I don't understand the simplicity of this circuit.

Friend we need to have filter to cover the entire FRS / GRMS UHF band.
Because here in the region has a community radio with strong signal on FM 88 - 108 mhz.
So we want a filter of 462 mhz up to 468 hmz to cover the entire range of FRS and GMRS.
How can we filter the weak signals only from this frequency and ignore the strongest signals? So we will not hear the signal of FM 88 - 108 mhz because it will be squeaking and not working?

We just want to listen and transmit in FRS and GRMS and make sure the Baofeng UV-5R also receives these weak signals.

https://www.changpuak.ch/electronics/combline_bandpass_filter_designer.php

it was the RC filter, do you think about a LC filter class? thank you.

Great video! Question: I thought you needed to have a buffer between passive filter stages to prevent 1 stage from loading the other stage and changing the fc, am I missing something?

I thought filters had to have inductors (coils) ??

What about lc filters?

What happened to just uf and pf. Now we have nanofarads, then the numbered like 104k?

Not your fault! Great videos!

A bit of constructive criticism, it sounds like you have a very aggressive noise gate on your microphone or something. It is quite abrasive imo.

I am confused. Are the filters just a relationship between capacitors and resistors or inductor involved?

How do you know what range of resistors and and capacitors to use? For the filter application that you want to build.

No you can use op amps. They prevent the different stages from influencing each other :) But you can't use them for RF frequencies cuz they can't switch fast enough. For audio frequencies it should be fine though

I have a playlist featuring filters. Have a look.

+Carl Davis The notch is the opposite of the bandpass. It cuts out a certain frequency range.

+Julio Bedaque LC filters are coming up soon

+Lloyd Jackson a buffer is good practice, this is the textbook version

learnelectronics Oh ok, thanks. So this bandpass configuration works fine unless you need it to be very accurate to the cut off freq then you would add buffer between?

There are RC filters and LC filters and RLC filters, and probably some I've never heard of.

+dar0 We will get there...

Thanks! I think they make things harder when they try and make them easier!

learnelectronics What signal generator do you use?

Both. Inductors are generally used at high frequencies.

1/2(pi)RC   1 divided by 2 x pi(3.14) x R(Resistor value) x C(Capacitor value)

Yes I know that’s for the frequency.

Are the blue cylinders inductances or resistors? Sorry for asking a stupid question but I'm confused.

how does that formula give the values for the inductors/resistors and capacitors for both the HPF & LPF 2π RC  or π²⁎R⁎C

Resistors

 @learnelectronics  Because sometime people use inductors looking like resistors. Thanks!

