You guys have some seriously awesome videos for beginners.  You've got my business!

Thank you for this! I hear you build pedals and I'm' looking forward to checking out the rest of your videos. Very helpful!

2:00 how to use a padboard.  Extremely helpful

Nice solder up-close demo. :- ))

Really helpful for us newbies (even at my age), thanks!

Brief and intelligible to a beginner like me. Thanks!

Nice demonstrations and explanations.

Really helpful in a pinch thank you!

thanks for the tips on soldering, using the component legs as a conductor track is great, thanks

Nicely done. Very precise unstructions.

Thanks for the video.
Never seen the standoffs ❤

Very useful. I'm sure it will improve my soldering no end.

Very helpful video, thank you

Awesome! Thank you :)

Very informative :)

So clever, thank you for this nice video! I learned a lot about it and will go for soldering stuff in the future.

Great video - Thanks!

Good information video

Just made my first order @Amplified Parts.

Thank you very much this video really helped me!

same here!

 @Technodude255  o ty prdale

Great video for beginners and perfectly shows how to use the boards that can be soldered for a more permanent design . Shaky hands, reduce alcohol/stress intake lol!

Thanks for sharing love your store have a lot of nice quality products looks like a lot of it's genuine that's a big deal these days 🤗💖💯 I will definitely shop. And thanks for the great video.

Super helpful dude, I’m just starting my electronics journey and any bit of info helps! Thanks heaps

Thanks - this was the clearest description of how to use padboards that I have seen. Stripboards don’t make much sense when I am using an Arduino Nano - most of the pins I typically don’t use...

thank you

this stuff was never properly explained in my class.
why did i pay fees?

6:03 Or you could use a wooden box since wood is an excellent insulator or a plastic casing.

fucking awesome

That trick with the resistor lead bending over to form a connection was really nice! I was looking for videos on how to attach wire to my components (still haven't found anything :D) so I didn't even consider doing connections this way!

could I cut down a padboard if I needed something really small to only hold a few components?

So at 5:27 that 8-pin component opposite side legs (3rd from top) are actually connected? Why only the right side has the red rectangle and not on the left side if the whole row is on same potential level?

what solder is he using? looks better than mine.

Thank you very much mister Trump

What are the advantages of using the 2 Holes per pad compared to 1 hole per pad?

Can the flux wash damage components? Like an OLED screen?

For prototypes it don't mater do you use strip or pad boards. If size matters then pad board but it will be more like rat nest.

Done key needles?
Foot palmas

ථට්ටය

On stripboards, what tool do you use to cut the traces? You skimmed over that.

Could hot melt glue be used in place of stand offs when you don't care about being able to easily get the board out again?

Agreed! Thanks very much!

Thanks, Jim! Glad we could help.

well it is quite the opposite. for IC type strip boards are the easiest as mostly each pin would have multiple parallel connections

Instablaster

That's actually the preferred way to do things, as the lead is unbroken. The alternative is to use a jumper wire on the other side or the same side, but there's always a chance that an overheat will cause the joint to melt and the wire will fall off.
What I found interesting was to use solder(and not jumper wire) to bridge adjacent nodes. Much cleaner that way. Uses a lot of solder though.

Chainsaw

Hot glue may not be the best choice. Plastic standoffs are easy to install: https://www.amplifiedparts.com/products/standoffs-018-plastic-adhesive-backing

4:50 that board looks kinda sad ngl  : |

4:44 :l

Thank you for this video! Is it possible to use the solderable breadboard for prototyping? Is this advisable or should I be using standard breadboards for prototyping only?

I am 60% sure this is Jack Black

How are called the little white feet at the end? Stand offs?

Are stripboards and general purpose PCBs the same thing? I’m trying to build synths!

Do PCB's have positive and negative terminals like breadboard do? Or is it just a piece with no negative and positive terminals

Why do Americans always add a quantifier to an absolute? 5:48 "fits very perfectly," if it's perfect then it can't be more or less! Adding the qualifier downgrades the word's meaning, you guys have already ruined "unique" as continued use of "very" before it means we no longer have a word that means "one of a kind"

Please be careful when using a breadboard. It will create frequencies that will enter your body and cause damage.
Wrap either the  breadboard or your body in tinfoil to block out the frequencies. You must be careful with frequencies.

Thanks for sharing this video & information it has been helpful. de AA4SH

It's possible to de solder, however it's more efficient and better to just use a standard breadboard

And 40% sure it's Kyle Gass?

Yes that is indeed what they are called. There are links to all of the products used in the video in the description, including the standoffs, so definitely check them out!

Stripboard is made of the same materials as a standard PCB but with an open layout for custom prototyping. Some people like the simplicity it allows for layouts but space can be a factor so for tighter layouts, protoboard can be a better choice. That being said, there are some creative stripboard layouts that maximize space very well. If you are interested in building synths, we carry a variety of components commonly found in synth / eurorack projects! https://www.amplifiedparts.com/products/synth-eurorack-parts-diy

Nah It's more generalised , you have a supply and earth. Supply can be negative or positive.

You can choose the potential points yourself.

