Major major props to you Joshua. No one else does it like you. We deeply deeply appreciate everything you do and highly contribute to this hobby. Thank you very much for everything!

My favortie part of the video was when I had to flash my blheli_s escs to blue jay and Joshua said you can change the startup sound. So anyways everytime I turn on my drone everyone around me gets rick rolled.

This man is doing the lords work!!

I have been building and flying these crazy little monsters since the first DJI Phantom came out.  As I grew and branched out from Warpquads into FPV you were there to offer the no BS factual answers. (there are a few other gurus I look at but you are THE guru).  Like many of your followers I have a lot of quads, and a lot of evolutions.  You have kept up and supported all of the latest and greatest.  As one of your may dedicated followers, especially for problem solving, I just want to thank you for what you do.

I just love how you are able to explain everithing so clearly, I am so gratefull for your videos, every time i have a problem with my drone this is the place i look for information, Works every time! TYSM

I had never thought about using the gyro info in the motor tab to help identify a damaged motor. Great tip.

The grade of the explanation, low, middle, high, bardwell.

This video in particular was extremely useful in resolving some basic setup issues in Betaflight.

been a while since I watched a JB vid but need to help someone sort out their quad motor order and I knew right away this was the place I would get the right info. Thanks JB!

DUDE, YOURE A LIGHT IN THE DARKNESS MAN!!! UNBELIEVABLE WELL DISPLAYED... RESPECT FROM GERMANY

I like so much when you play "Tou ... tou .. tou ..... tou, tou !" :)

Thanks for doing this, there was a lot I didn't know. I think you are the only one to go through betaflight like this.

Videos like these is why I joined your Patreon. Thanks JB.

The Best thing about 4.3!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Thanks so much JB

Thank you JB, I will follow all your series..👍😊🔥🔥🔥

Thank you Joshua!🙏💪

If you are watching this video and you learned something hit that like button !  We watching this for free  !   Is the least you could do

Great video, just learned how to diagnose motors.

THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU! Really appreciate you doing all this work for us! Much love

Question: I’ve got a Cinebot30 bind and fly. I imagine it’s got some form of BL Heli on it but I’ve heard Bluejay is way better. If I flash Bluejay, is it possible it’d ruin the rest of the config/tune from the factory because it was setup on Bluejay? Not looking to mess everything up on my first quad lol but heard such good things about Bluejay as well

My take from this video also!!

Nice work Knowitall!

Awesome, Joshua! Thanks!!! 😃
Stay safe there with your family! 🖖😊

I still swap motor wires to change direction. Just faster if you have plugs. I busted a plug though and had to solder to board direct so now I'm here...

LOVE IT AND AM EARNING MORE AND MORE AND MORE LOL

Learning alot! Thank you!

Thank you bardwell for all the info you learn everyone!

Great info. Thank's!

Osom! Thank you very much!

Just...... Thx man.!🙏

The reason why Ian here is that when I turn it on… in the app it shows a problem that bitbang Dshot has a problem likely caused by a timer conflict with other features enabled on the fc. I use it on desk top and doesn’t mention it. Using Speedybee f405 v5. Running in dshot 300 currently. New quad and flown yet

thanks Joshua

Such a good video series! Might be your best so far. Please release the rest of the series soon, actually programming my first quad simultaneously with your videos haha

THANK YOU!!!

Hello Joshua. Without your videos many people would throw their quads in the trash. Thanks to the infinite time you spend in front of your camera and researching
(We who have problems can solve them) Thank you very much. Always continue with your channel! Thanks to your Betaflight tutorials I was able to solve a problem on my FC and I was able to continue with my work. THX Joshua

¡Gracias!

❤❤❤❤❤❤❤

Stumbled upon a Betaflight 4.3 instructional video……..uh…….and the first of April has gone by…….J.B.,  people don’t stumble here.  Humility, I know that you practice it, but really.  You be da one that keeps a lot of us in the know about this constantly changing environment, and do the work that manufacturers seem either incapable or too damn lazy to do.  In this one you are doing the “ You know nothing, that is o.k., here’s how it works “.  Perfect!  And clean your fridge before your next outrow?

Thanks

I'm loving these video series. Do you have a video on how to determine if a motor is bad or if the ESC is bad?

enjoying this walk through!!!

"page up and page down" never knew that , sweet

If that's the I Flight  Nasgal 5 Evoke  The motor screws come loose because of the 3-D print on the bottom of the arms.   Joshua you have to take the screws out and put  The blue to the screw lol lock tight.

Greetings, I have seen many videos and this is the best one that explains these Betaflight configuration points, but I still have not been able to properly configure the motors of my Pavo20, I think because no video explains what is the correct position to align my drone if with the battery facing down or how the propellers look facing up and what is the front part of the drone frame.

Hey Joshua, I'm a huge fan of your videos and think you're so knowledgeable about this hobby that so many of us love and enjoy. On top of that you show such a great ability to explain things to all levels of experience so that we all do, in fact, learn something today. I, however, have a question.

 I own a tx16s and a tinyhawk freestyle 2. One day when i was updating the firmware on my radio I made the rookie mistake of not double checking that I did in fact make a backup of my old firmware and had all my models saved on my computer. As you may have figured, I did not have those aforementioned backups and had to reset up my quads' profiles. Not the end of the world, right? Except for now my aux switches wont respond in betaflight. Since then it's been a few months and I reflashed my radio into edgeTX successfully and my Protek35 even still worked with the radio afterwards. Once again though, no response from my aux switches on the Tinyhawk. If you could help me out I would be so grateful. I feel like the solution is simple and im just not looking in the right place, but even still... I've been looking for months now. At this point I figured I might as well buy a second Tinyhawk Freestyle 2 but I'd like to not have to spend that money if i can help it.

Thank you for taking the time to read this if you even see or get to this point. Again, I love your videos and have gained so much knowledge from them, and that's not even mentioning the wonderful community you've built. Please, help me learn something today

Pineapple on pizza = boss move

What’s crazy I can’t get anything to pull up on ports

Hi Joshua, 
Thank you for all your videos! Helped me a lot! I'm having a problem, I'm setting up my first ever FPV with DJI O4 unit pro, Speedybee A60 4in1 and EMAX ECO II. All good until now...I guess but when I go to "ESC/Motor Protocol" to select Dshot 300, it does not let me. All are in gray (that cannot be selected), the only ones I can select are: Brushed, Disabled and PMW_Output...I have no idea how to fix this...do you have a video that fix this?

My moter is not spending what I do

Thanks for this deep dive, was wondering about the other esc protocols though :)

when I flash BlueJay to my ESC's my motors will not work anymore, any advice?

I’ve recently purchased a Cetus x kit and I’m going through the set ups but the props just seem to pulse after I’ve armed it and when I try to take of it just throws its self in the air and shuts off

I just reset my cinelog 30 v3. I'm new to fpv world now my gyro is fked my motors are spinning wrong and i think i installed my props wrong too, how can i fix it guys?

Why did they reverse "Home" and "End" ? Just got a jumpscare from my old habit of keeping a finger on "End" during the tests...

Got my gyro set and moves correctly, props on correct, motors move fine in betaflight but when trying to actually fly the front sucks down when the back should be pushing and no throttle, all the motors worked correctly before the gyro adjustment, please help!

Hi, I really need your help. After these previous steps now my motor is moving. Could you please help me with that.

I have a Meteor 75 Pro. Is it okay to enable bidirectional D Shot for this whoop please?

What can you do if betaflight not taking anything?

I have a blheli32 esc on 32.9 but i just get 100% errors if I enable bidirectional dshot, please help me, i dont know what to do

I just got done building a quad and when I have battery connected and connect to Betaflight, one motor is incrementally running, what would cause that?

Im a Newbie in fpv and i need your help so If your ever on the East end of Knoxville on the weekends .  Let's meet up I work at Keruig Dr  Pepper over on Water plant Rd. I'm always by the river before clocking in .  I use my Dji fpv , I just recently bought the Nazgul 5 hd  and I was wondering if we could meet up sometime ? I'm having issues binding / using betaflight on my smart phone . Etc.. 
  Your a badass pilot ..

Goals*   

Hit me up .

10:40 are you sure that electric motors have HIGHER toque at HIGHER throttle? I always thought it was the other way around. That's why a tesla has a great 0-60 but slows down after that.

You don't need other protocols

It's not about needing, it's about being curious and wanting to learn. I looked it up myself. I justLike to be thorough, it interests me

I tried to configure according to your video although preview responds according to the remote control. However, the motor does not spin, even though I am able to control motors using app.
I have configured the flysky transmitter and the receiver with the speedy bee F7 stack. In my Flight controller there are 4 pins for receiver (GND, 5v, R2 and T2).  What should I do and what is the problem?

I need help, I have the iflight protek 35. was flying fine, decided to update to betaflight 4.3 applied my preset configuration and now I get 100% ESC error in motors tab. I turned off Bidirectional and now the error is gone and motors arm properly. I would like Bidirectional but cant figure this problem out.

I quad flew great until I updated to beta flight 4.5. I used the correct target. Everything is set up perfectly except for the motors tab. Dshot 600 and bidirectional dshot is turned on. I have two motors spinning and the other two show E: 100.00%. I never had an issue before with this. Just wondering if I'm missing something

Helo joshua,im new with this fpv,and i just got my dji v2  goggles and i have air unit,and im stock there do i need to do anything before starting to use the v2 goggles?,hope youll notice me,thanks

Hi joshua, i just updated firmware using the steps you shown in another video of calibrating drone, after updating the motors show error 100.00%. How can i fix this??

hi Joshua! how are you? i'm new in the hobbie, but with a problem i have a baby nazgul 73mm! Why it keeps cleaning the MOTOR PROTO, the UART SERIAL and the RECEIVER PORT info from time to time?

hi i got a foxeer 10 inc, when the throttle gets above 50% it becomes very instabile. what do you think the issue could be?

I have a speedybee f7 v3, is it choose dshot600 or dshot300? thanks a lot.

so on idle value .....in turtle mode ......does this mean that a lower value will not allow you to cut the grass so you can flip back over?

5 mins ago :0

Suddenly one of my motor stoped working, it vibrates once when I plug it in with the power but then it doesn’t work. The rest of the motors rotate. I went to the CLI tab in betaflight and typed the command “resource”, it shows :
resource MOTOR 1 A15
resource MOTOR 2 B03
resource MOTOR 3 B04
resource MOTOR 4 B06
resource MOTOR 5 B07
resource MOTOR 6 B05
resource MOTOR 7 B00
resource MOTOR 8 B01
I use the speedybee f7v3 stack what should I do?

What platform do you use for a camera platform? Not understanding.

Pleeeeeeeeease heeelp! 
When im controlling the motors via the configurator they spin perfectly fine, all in the right direction. BUT when I arm the quad with my receiver, all 4 motors just go wild and spin up to full throttle. I made sure to be in acro but this doesnt look like an angle correction either.
I didnt find anything yet, so if anyone maybe has some advise, it would help me a looooot!

This is crazy. My motors are reversed (spin outward). I had a magnet come lose on a Blackbird motor making it hard to spin so I swapped all 4 motors with an old set of Velox 2306 motors I had. I went to test fly it. Ramping up throttle and no leaving the ground, just motors spinning up & pressing the quad into the ground harder. So I arm and disarm to see the motor direction and sure enough the motors are spinning backwards. Weird because I wired them exactly as the BB motors were wired. I swap the props around and it does the jump in the air and disarm thing. OKAY! Go home and hook to Betaflight to change the motor direction, but when I have BF spin the motors, they're spinning in the correct direction (outwards). I put the props back on, go back out to test fly and it flies perfectly. Somehow the motors changed direction all by themselves and without swapping motor wires and without changing settings in BF, the motors start spinning in the correct direction. How stupid is that?

Forgot to add the various video links stated in this video, in the video description?

When I click on one of the numbers, it does not reverse the direction of the motor. I don't know why is doesn't reverse the direction. Does anyone know why this is happening?

I watch this twice and did everything as in this video.  I have the correct motors spinning and in the correct direction as in Betaflight.  Also, my TX16s sticks move as required in the receiver tab.
HOWEVER:  When I disconnect from Betaflight all my motors spin in reverse compared with the setup.  How is that possible?

What  if my m1 pad is burned out and i need to use M5???

What are the rest of the esc/motor Protocols for like multi shot and pros hot 1000?

Two of my motors spin from one input and they are all connected properly, do you think i received a faulty stack?

Hey guys! I have the same issue and I can’t figure out what is wrong as well. Via the configurator all works pretty well, but when I arm the quad with the remote controller sometimes the motors are spinning pretty normal, but very often they go wild, and I feel very strong vibrations. Any suggestions?

Wiring different motors exactly the same does not guarantee they'll spin the same direction. The construction of the motors can make two different models of motor spin the opposite way even if they're wired the same.
My guess is that when you ran the BF motor wizard, it reset the motor direction, and the defaults turned out by chance to be correct.

 @JoshuaBardwell  If it reset the motors, it did it automatically. All I did in BF was tell it to spin the motors so I could check the direction and see if I needed to reverse the directions. I didn't tell it to change anything. I didn't save any settings. When I seen them spinning the correct direction I unplugged the battery and the USB cable. I didn't hit the disconnect button in BF. 
 These Velox motors use to be on this quad and I have a way of wiring them. Far left wire goes to far left ESC pad, center wire to center pad & so on. That's how they were wired when they came off so I was sure when I wired them back up the same way they would spin the correct direction. 
When I replaced these motors with the Blackbird motors, I wired them the same way and didn't have to change the motor directions because they all spun the correct direction. 

Sometimes, very rarely, I plug in a battery and can't arm. Video works, but can't arm. I have to power cycle the quad. Weird, but it happens and I have no explanation other than the equipment is cheap so it's bound to screw up from time to time. Possibly a power surge prevents the code from running or it causes a line of code to skip? A quadcopter blue screen of death kind of thing I suppose.

 @JoshuaBardwell  YouTube's code screwes up too. I'm watching your video but the description is for OceanGate Expeditions, a video I watched a couple videos ago.

Ah heck. I did add them but apparently I didn't hit save or something. I've fixed it now. Sorry for the inconvenience.

 @JoshuaBardwell  no problem.  I simply googled it and found it.  Was just giving a headsup

Betaflight 4.4.2 has a bug where this doesn't work. Go back to 4.4.1 if you're on 4.4.2.

 @JoshuaBardwell  It worked, Thank you.

I know it sounds rudimentary, but did you forget to hit save and reboot after your changes?

Remap motor 1 resource to motor 5 pin

 @JoshuaBardwell i've tried the common cli resource remap but it ends in a mixer error. May be a bug?

The true answer is that they are archaic and basically should never be used with any modern equipment.

 @JoshuaBardwell  thankyou!

I think that inside the ESC plug on the FC, two pins are bent over and touching each other. Unplug the ESC plug from the FC and look inside it and I think you'll see one pin bent over to touch another. If you are super careful, you can get in there with a tweezer and bent it straight again.

 @JoshuaBardwell Awesome thank for the reply, I also thought that there may be an issue with the connector. Thanks alot 🤙

 @JoshuaBardwell yep one of the pins was bent over and was on the the other one, thanks for that you probably saved me a lot of time 🤙

is it still a release candidate or has it been released?

Hi Joshua, about the motor direction, if i want to make a pusher quad, can i just use the motor remapping feature without having to flip the whole board?

I disagree with the “typical” theory of DShot by most BF people. The PID loop and DShot value are not connected in any way. The frequency of each means nothing to the other. DShot is a serial Baud rate (1 baud = 1 bit/second). It’s a transfer rate, not a polling rate like the PID loop. In my opinion, you should run the highest DShot value possible while maintaining reliability. PID loop rate is irrelevant. KISS runs a 1kHz loop and DShot2400 for gods sake. And you (or perhaps I) can absolutely tell a difference between that and 600. It’s a small gain but a gain nonetheless.

i installed firmware 4.3 bf on configurator 10.8.0 and connect my drone, but hen bf downgrade itself to firmware 4,2,8 

Can anyone explain what’s going wrong??

I have all drivers and download bf require to run..

So when I go to motortab in configurator, I got the message (you have to upgrade your firmware) ?? But I already upgraded..

Anyone with same problem ?

Hi Joshua can you answer a quick question what is the best hd fpv camera as of April 2022 range, freestyle and cruising

hey Joshua... why do I not have access to the motor direction changing option? I've flashed the newest firmware, but in the top left it says 4.2.11 instead of 4.3.0.  is it possible my ESC doesn't support it? thanks.

Great vid series. I see you've flashed your iflight evoque. I've seen how much you love the evoque (out of the box) tune. Which tune do you like better? The BF tune that came out of the box on your Evoque or BF 4.3 rc3 stock tune?

Joshua Sir, can you please give me some direction?  I purchased the meteor75 pro and the front right motor spins in the wrong direction.  I have tried to change it in betaflight, and it doesn't seem to work.  I have pushed the cli recommended on their site.  Any ideas by any chance?  Thank you for your time and great videos!

Release candidate 4

Sure. Make sure that you are looking at the motors from top down though when you do it.

 @JoshuaBardwell  Cool.. tks Joshua

Betaflight's argument is that you use the slowest baud rate that keeps the frame time less than the loop time. This means you minimize the corrupted packets since the slower baud rate is more robust. KISS argument is you run the fastest baud rate possible to minimize latency between the FC and the motors, but it means you get more corrupted packets since the faster baud rate is less robust. I'm not sure which is right, but in a Betaflight tutorial, I'm going to parrot the Betaflight party line.

Before anybody (including you) claims they can tell the difference between dshot600 and dshot2400, they should do a blind test. If you've done one, link it here :-)

 @JoshuaBardwell  I understand the argument. But I’ve never really seen any reason not to run the higher rate. In terms of corrupted packets. Obviously electrical noise can play a major roll in this, but the wire runs are so small, I can’t image it causing any issues. It’s just one of those small points of latency decrease that adds to the whole.

Basically, you didn't upgrade. I don't mean to argue, but there's just no way a FC could revert itself from 4.3 to 4.2.

 @JoshuaBardwell  sry it’s my bad English.. 
I appreciate your feedback.

I try again.
if I connect one of my old drones (Revolt) it show bf 4.3
Then I bought Geprc Mark 5 after I saw your video with your presentation of the drone..
When I plug in Geprc Mark 5 to bf, then bf says it’s firmware 4.2.8 and I have to upgrade bf before I can check my motor on this drone🤔
I have tried your recommendations, to set the box (unstable firmware) till on with no luck..

Sry my bad English, I hope it’s better explained now??

GoPro Hero 10 is fantastic but heavy. DJI Action 2 is not quite as good but a lot lighter.

 @JoshuaBardwell  Hi, thanks for getting back to me I was trying to find the best camera as in caddx hd, is pola vista etc

Thank you, I guess you can't say that some simple answer will do, is there any chance you could do a video just on the latest on board dji cameras, I will go with there hero10 as far as recording

Install configurator 10.8

 @JoshuaBardwell  hmm, I already had it, and tried uninstalling and reinstalling, but the latest firmware for my FC is still only 4.2.11

