This is how physics should be taught.

Capacitor : You take my energy !
Inductor   : No, you take my energy !
Resistance in the circuit : Alright, I'll take the energy then

Wow current students are so lucky to have such animations. I studied this in 1977 on a black board with white chalk. This is so clear.

Started giving to you on Patreon a few days ago and I have 0 regrets. Your animations do what hours of textbooks and papers cannot.

This person like physics. He takes everything "physically", even the magnetic field have shadows 😁.

This video is a blessing on the internet

😵❤️
You cant expect any other way to explain, than this !

wish i had this in my engg classes . as it is electical classes are tough as its intangible ,these vids are so helpful to grasp the concept.

beautiful presentation of LC circuit. I've learned a lot from here. Thank you

Great engineers thank you for clearing this concept

Capacitor: hold my energy
Inductor: no u

What an awesome channel! It explains everything so clearly.

Wow what an explanation... The best video on YouTube....

Thanks to all.

Thank you for these animations, I really needed this to visualize what was happening in the circuit as time proceeded.

Brilliantly explained

Thank you for explaining such an essential, yet abstract subject in such a concrete and easy to understand way

Couldn't go another world series without you LC.

Amazingly explained!!! now I love physics 👨‍🎓👨‍🎓

Amazing physics behind it

Unfortunately that animation leads to a flawed understanding of electricity - it is not a good way to teach misconceptions like that.

 @MrXBT2000  Yes thank you. Oversimplification is bad sometimes.

Electromagnetics aren't really taught until you take Physics 2 in university and... this is one of the many examples we learned.

You just see lectures of LC oscillation by Physics Wallah - Alakh Pandey . Then you will know how physics is really taught and you will fall in love with physics .

 @nishantkumartiwari1202  I seriously wish you grow up and then edit this answer 👍

It is taught incorrectly like this everywhere... 
Now let's see what happens when you show an accurate whirlpool/vortex at either "pole" so you can accurately picture the inward centrifugal and outward centripetal "forces" that are making this work in the very first place. 
Wow, visualizing the unseen how it actually instead of a fictional nonsensical view that does not make any sense of electric or magnetic fields.👎👎

The video is wrong! I can't believe no one caught this!
1:49 The capicitor voltage reaches 0 when the inductor current is at it's maximum, then as the inducter current comes back down to 0, the capacitor is already fully charged in opposite polarity!
The voltage and current are offset by 90°. This AC networks 101!

True

Just like this. Only way better.

What a great sarcasm!

tu padha de phir

My school only did diagrams

Period

True talk

hainaaa

ikr i was like wats all this mumbo jumbo 🤣

I agree with you❤😂

Yes,this should be how physics is taught.But in most of the schools physics is taught not as physics,but as merely one of the subjects to pass in the exam.But we don't have to worry there are many sources like this to have enjoyable lessons

What software you use to make such animations?

Its should be analyzed like that

This video barely explains any concepts, and the animation is wrong. So no, this definitely isn't how physics should be taught. The voiceover doesn't even mention why inductors have a coil, or how coils behave like magnets under current, or how magnets induce currents. It doesn't even explain what a capacitor is, and instead pretends like it's a battery, which it isn't.

 @E_Mihaya  I disagree with mamy of your points.

 @E_Mihaya  Yes you are right I am just saying that Physics should be taught in a very practical manner instead of theoretical . In India the Education System only focus on theoritical concept instead of practical visualisation which must be there to understand Physics or any Science subject.

@Aspect Bro I am not saying to visualise the electrons or protons but at atleast the practicals which is meant to be visualise should be taught and make us aware. In every Science subject whether it's Physics, Chemistry ,etc it needs practical visualisation otherwise there will no difference in Language,History and Science Subjects.

​@Aspect if you're not filling up 50,000 pages with quantum field equations to solve for all the interacting particles in a circuit, then you're omitting detail about the problem and instead you're using some practical approximation techniques. even quantum field equations are conceptual abstractions of reality and are not reality. when you're reading through an electronics textbook and the textbook uses 20 lines of common electronics equations to solve a problem - that's a "practical" way to model the situation that is omitting huge amounts of detail about the situation. this video is just another way to model reality with the goal of removing enough complexity to allow relatively quick learning of the subject of the video - LC oscillations. sure the video is omitting surface charge distributions on the wires, it's omitting current densities, it's omitting physical construction techniques of modern capacitors, it's omitting transient phenomena (skin effect, transmission line theory), it's omitting electron tunneling effects, it's omitting the inductances and capacitances of the wiring, thermal noise, electric field fringing. the list is endless. not even a graduate textbook is going to go through all these concepts on a single problem when the goal is to determine the current through a capacitor at time t. so, no matter your goal, you have to omit detail in order to generate a useful model of a situation. the goal here is to omit enough unimportant detail to get a feel for the concept of LC oscillations for people new to the topic. i think the video did a good job of this and it would be beneficial for professors to show videos like this in class to enable the students a quick, intuitive feel for the concept. too many professors forget what it's like to learn these things for the first time and go straight to equations on the board, which require the students to de-abstract the symbols into a physical representation to actually understand what the equations are saying. equations are of course useful and powerful, but often get in the way when first trying to understand a concept/subject.

 @snackentity5709  Dude, the other extreme. Ever looked around the room for "that guy"? You know how sometimes you don't find him? Know why that is?

@Aspect Definitely but I am not pointing out flaws but the need to reform .

Spot on!

Learn Engineering 
Please translate to Arabia
اتمنى ان تترجم للعربية

 @ahmdabdallah2132  
Its a place of learning things . Not about religious study of any religion. If you really are a great devotee then educate people. Make them a well being. These religions ,cultures , cast , creed and what not are just made to divide people. At the end its all faith in something good , which matters. If you teach people and make him successful . Not only just God but the guy's family and whole bunch of other human being will appreciate it.

 @sunilkumarpradhan.4376  Yes :)

Most hilarious EE joke 😜.

😀😀🙏

 @randomdude9135  ya I'm from Karnataka

 @randomdude9135  no bagalkot

😂😂😂

Nice one

😄

😂

 @ahmdabdallah2132  wait so if im christian following the bible im not following jesus?

The resistance says - I will take your energy and waste it.

 @ahmdabdallah2132  Wrong place to promote ur religion

😁😁🤣🤣😂😂

😂

Lol😂😂😂

le-meow!

That's all about how serious business works

 @ahmdabdallah2132  good joke

 @ahmdabdallah2132  good joke 

And you are a good joker

😆

 @ahmdabdallah2132  So why all the religious intolerance?

Meanwhile HEAT to ELECTRICITY: Give me your soul!!!

😂❤️👌

😂😂😂

lmao =))

Resistor: nah I’d take 😏

😂😂😂😂

PID

 @ahmdabdallah2132  
What’s that got to do with physics?
Go away.

 @ahmdabdallah2132  cuidado, un satánico :v

Capacitor: gold rush
Inductor: gold panner
Resistor: shopkeeper

@Rey Cassius Instablaster :)

@Matthias Alonso it did the trick and I finally got access to my account again. I'm so happy!
Thank you so much you saved my account :D

@Rey Cassius Glad I could help =)

 @ahmdabdallah2132  Ahmd: Christians obey the Qur'an. Because in the Qur'an it is stated that Jesus spoke from the cradle, Jesus healed the lepers, Jesus resurrected the dead, Jesus gave life to birds of clay. Moreover the Qur'an states that Jesus was born of a virgin. So, we know the mother of Jesus which is Miriam but....who is His Father??? Further more: the Second Coming is about Jesus (according to Islamic teachings). Conclusion: Jesus is the real hero of Qur'an and Yes we do love Him!

 @liviuconstantin9960  Dumnezeu e unic! Ne-a creat dupa chipul si asemanarea lui. Deci... suntem unici. Interesant... din cauza asta nu ne spun inteligentii pamantului nimic despre extraterestri. Probabil nu trebuie sa stim ca mai exista unul sau mai multi dumnezei!? Unul musulman, unul indian si unul martian. Ebine totusi ca dumnezeu ne da o lectie de democratie... ne lasa sa alegem ce vrem noi.👍

There were animations back then too, there is one from a US air force training video from 1974, well animation might be a bit of a stretch, more like a stop motion blackboard :D

Technology is amazing, thank you for letting my generation have such devices!

Same thought.Learned in 1977

Wow, how old are you now?

I appreciate your comment sir ,but still we should not underestimate the power of that black board!

Nice pun

fr fr

Haha

😄

Jee aspirant?

😂

Litterally just loled

LMAOOO

Resistor: Fine, I will take it myself

Thank you for explanation

Awesome video! Thank you!

Perfect. Thank you!❤️

Great explanation.

Nice work. Thanks for visual

Beautifully explained

Love your videos. Learning loads. Thanks.

Great video!

Thanks for the important video.

0:10 awwwwww

its a nice explanation with best animation

Best way to teach physics 👌👌👌👌👌👌✌️

Thanks for this kind of Explanation , i already subscribe just of that , keep it up 🙂

Nice information

Great video, thank you!

Interestingly interpreted...Thanks

Very nice information

thanks !!! i just needed to understand LC circuits for an exam

Awesome video man👌👌

So cool!!

aww moments of physics.

you forgot to mention that the change of current direction back to the source where it was originated is triggered by the same electromagnetic field generated by the inductor due to the natural beaviour of electricity to balance energy. Once the current finalizes flowing through the inductor in one direction, the magnetic field returns back to its original state and that natural behaviour generates a current flow in the opposite direction back to the source.

It took me years and even graduated from electrical engineering, and by watching this video in just minutes I fully understand the RLC  circuits.

I LOVE THIS CHANNEL

very nice demonstration

simply, wow!!

well explained

RESISTOR: Give me your Energy! MUHAHA

Beautiful stuff

Wow! So cool!

beautiful explanation

자기장 코일이에요 영상감사합니다

U doing an awesome work hats off

beautiful animation thanks!

Please dive deeper in part of inductor why it behaves like that

Awesome animation

Just one word for you sir "Wow😯😯"

شكرا يا مستر محمود الفيديو كله إنجيليزي ومش فاهمة حاجة😂

Best video Ever  i learned a lot

Nice explanation 
Thanks !

Very good explanation

Sure you think you do.

Lol!!! What a big joke

Не так выглядит магнитное поле катушки ,  поток магнитного поля направлен с концов к центру катушки .

+Power Max & Kingsman   I believe the  “ Swede”  omitted the fact that so-called  “ free”  energy actually COSTS labor, which eventually COSTS time....

Inductors resist change in current. If you apply a voltage source like a battery, current starts at 0 but progressively grows without bound at a rate depending on voltage and inductance. If you then suddenly disconnect it from the voltage source, the current is forced to go from some finite amount to 0 instantly, causing it to develop a HUGE emf which causes it to arc across switch contacts. The voltage needed to establish the discharge path defines how rapidly the inductor "discharges."  This is a useful feature of inductors for boost converters.

 @power-max  The current might want to go to zero instantly but it isn't able to.

Ask yourself how does flux running through the core of a transformer induce voltage in the secondary altho it is totally confined in the core and coil is outside of it.

Great animation thank you

Well understood by best explanation

lovely explanation.... marvelous presentation

Excellent animation

you such a messiah !
thanks!!

This is fantastic Animation

thanks for helping me with physics,mid term test is tomorrow

Beautiful animation

Excellent explanation.👌👌👌👌👌

thank you, helped a lot.

Brilliant 🙏👍👏

Very helpful!

Very good explanation keep uploading many animated video this helps  to understand concepts in very good manner

Awesome 👍

Cool, now i know how to upgrade my homemade solar waterfountain.
Im 100% sure that you will love my homemade solar waterfountain video.
Thanks.

Well explain..thanks !!

Second

 learned alot thank you so much

Great information thanks

And thankful to you

Please, elaborate a bit more on the applications. Love your videos!

This.Is.The.Best.Fucking.Science.Video.I.Have.Ever.Seen.

I know this from my physic book

طلاب مستر محمود مجدي❤❤

GOD BLESS YOU !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Thank you so much

Perfect explanation, presentation. I wish you all the achievements,succession,I love your content from Egypt❤

Wow

It's a very helpful to learn ✌️

Wowwwww

Fabulous explained
Great

I really enjoyed this explanation

I had studied this topic in my class 12th Physics book in Alternating Current.

In radio transmitters, sometimes we develop a low frequency (because it is convenient) and use it to 'ping' an L/C circuit which has a resonant frequency at a multiple of the low frequency. The oscillations set up in the tuned circuit can be extracted and amplified to give us an output on (say) 2x, 3x or 4x the input frequency. This is called 'frequency multiplication' and is used to produce an output on a UHF channel from an input on VHF or lower. This technique is not used quite so often nowadays as modern phase lock loops can directly generate UHF without multipliers.

Amaging Work

Good explanation

Amazing keep uploading new videos

اللي جاي من طرف عمو محمود مجدي يظهر وجوده

I literally just stumbled on this video for the first time because I was doing some research and I noticed a lot of words that I wasn't familiar with. I put those four or five words in a YouTube search and this is the video that I clicked on. It's so funny because now I realize how my ebike's lithium battery's charging and discharging works. Hahaha. Thanks. 🔋

Amazing animation 😍

Ty good explanation

Excellent 👍

Excellent

It is a really informative video i hope you make more video like this 
💕💕Thanks💕💕

Now I feel ready to change my light bulb

Thanks you!♥️

I understood thank u so much

If only I had this video when I was in school ! Resolving equations and designing systems is much easier when you get the « feel » of it, it becomes more « intuitive » with such videos.

Feeling good 👍

superconductors be like we are endless

Love technology! Love your 3d videos to

LC Oscillation circuit Explo Beautiful Animation video Vera Level 👍👍👍👍👍👍

i just read this theory and now after watch this video my concepts are super

This used to be my favourite concept in electrostatics

Thanks...🙏🙏

Oh. Thank God. Finally someone had explained this perfectly. Now I can Die Peacefully.

You are the best 👌💓❤💗 Tnx

Thanks a lot

you are creative

love it 👍

Nice video

capacitor: here, take my energy :)
inductor: no u

very good

wheneven you eat cheet forever.

🤣

RC circuit:

Capacitor: you take my energy.
Resistor: Ok, suit yourself.  But you're never getting it back.

perfect !

SHANDAR 😍❤️🙏🙏🙏🙏🙏

This is awsomee broo....After watching this I am in love with physics😂♥️

Nice....! Make a video on  intreseting  application of this breifly......🤗

thank you

مين هنا حي من عند مستر محمود مجدي 😂😂♥️

Nice sir

I wish I saw this video before I prepared my physics presentation about the free damped oscillation in LC circuit😓

When I was studying my internet was very expensive in india I missed a lot during my education

Love you so much for the first time in the world .

Wonderfull Video. all amy doubrs are clear now! yo!!

Verry useful for class 11 and 12 too

I graduated from college and I was able to solve all LC equations yet! I didn't understand the concept since I didn't watch such an amazing video.

Thanks

3:08 I believe green line represents the critically damped case as you mention a critical value

So you finally you had changed your channel name yesterday an watching your channel name changing video and today I got surprised with this but It's good name 👍

oh my god 🖤

This could be cool for a kick drum!
It would produce its own envelope, the oscillation fading with the energy dissipated with each cycle.

I hope I had watched this video while I was preparing for JEE it would have been so much easier for me.

bravi bravi bravi .... from an ex student in electrical eng.

The final graph looked like Bessel function graph

I feel the same. Could have learned much better with youtube.

 @batra204  It's only in your imagination. Escapism

Education system of 21st century ladies and gentlemen

In India for getting into college you require to solve it

We need more girls and black people in Engineering

 @hugodaniel8975  simp

 @hugodaniel8975  lmao

​ @hugodaniel8975 to produce more mediocre engineers? No thanks

Green line case happens when the resistor eats up all the energy before the first half oscillation completes.

Please make a detailed video on inductors

Everything is perfect, except the fact that electrons barely move, it is the electric field the one that translate energy rather than electrons. I know this might sound stupid, but this is the reason why the inductor or capacitor formula only depends on the varying voltage of the source and dont take into account the topology of the circuit. So considering a circuit as pipes might work in the short term for simple circuit that dont work at radiofrequency (30KHz-300GHz).

nice really

Awesome

good man

I wish, I could have studied likely while I had studied electronic in 1983!!! That time, I was taught that in a capacitor, current lead voltage by 90° while in an inductor, voltage lead current by 90°. However, I couldn't understood such phenomenon until today!

Tq❤️

Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv thanks sir ji

thanks!

The thumbnail looks like a house centipede!

Great

Awesome video man! Can you explain how a Crystal Radio works, it's basically the same but with an energy source from the Radio signal.

💯👌🏼👌🏼

Incredible video!! Initially seeing that its just 3:25 seconds long i had doubts about its effectiveness. But now I'm blown away by how concise and well explained it was. You're a gifted teacher 🤍

Nice

As a medical doctor interested in how the brain works, i wonder if there are such circuits are in our brains. Memory itself is storage of energy that fluctuates.  Much appreciation if any reference is availed for any proposed circuits in the brains.

Bravooooo

SIMPLE but AWESOME vid ....🎩👏🏾👏🏾👏🏾!!!!

Nice sir
#NPTELANSWER

Labai patiko

Make video on LC circuit application in details.

👌🏻👌🏻👌🏻

باب المجال 🧡

Yup dhanraj pandey!!

Resistance be like : I m the heroooo

Super

使用正負電荷表示會更好

Thanks

electro wizard been real quiet lately

thx now school's mumbo jumbo make sense 😁

Rajwant sir op

Can you guys make video on drilling tool geometry and application of drilling tool.

You are the beings that should be worshipped, not politicians, celebrities or religious deities. It is people like you who helped move humanity forward. I cannot thank you enough.

💛

Damm you resistence

💕🥂

The video screams differential equations all over the place. Love it!

محمود مجدي ❤❤

Both are playing table tennis (Capacitor and Inductor)
With Energy as the Ball

We need to consider the circuit as ideal circuit or there will be some loss of current due to resistance of the wire and dissipation of heat

‘Resistance is futile’

‘Resistance has left the chat’

Yes, I was taking EE course, and my Differential Equations Class used electrical circuits (AC of course) for all my Exams..

 @40Kens  have u ever used differential equation in life to solve some electrical problem?

Till the refree(resistor) takes the ball away

Heh I love this

Good

Good video .can you explain how a microcontroller 8051 works ?

so the lc system would be used in an inverter to have smooth waves by hooking up a square wave current to it to correct for the resistance

Might be an unusual request, but can you do a video about antennas?

thank you for your informations.... i have question about metal detector how it works? pls. if u have a video about it

5 minutes video here explains it better than a year at school with some dumb teacher who complicated things very much!

Amazing explanation....could you please let me know how to make such animated videos?

Capacitor: U take my energy
Inductor: no, u

👍

So how this concept connects with the powerfactor improvement in industries?

We want to know how generator operates under faults and how negative component appears, please

Now I completely understood that ,
why RDA is  insane about UNOBTANIUM.

Reminds me a bit of an oscillator on a music synthesizer.

beautiful presentation of LC circuit. I've learned a lot from here. Thank you

Excellent

Super

Wow

Nice

Super

good

What if we use a current amplifier circuit in between??☺️

Thanks

Iam waking up thermoking😎

damp factor  with  fixed LC it is dying  down with time. Clipped to an unit step pulse of oscillation.

put the copper ring around a space rocket and turn on protection for the astronoughts

화성에 자기장이없는이유는 행성이 죽어서입니까 전기가없어서입니까 하하하하하

Can I change irregular wave of current to sine wave in this way,?
Need expert help.

I just studying the LC oscillation in my high school syllabus 😇

Thanks this helps me out to understand this in graphical way

Are you an EE ? Your visualizations are very good.

👌👍🤩🔥♥️

If we super cool down the circuit there will be less or zero resistance

"based on the change in current flow" 
based on the speed and direction of change (increase or decrease) 
in the current flow.

Thanks to the creator

By this principle all the transformers and RF circuits functioning.
This is what we call RESONANCE CIRCUITS.

❤❤

I have just started learning about lc circuits for radio, what would the effect of increasing the capacitance have on the frequency of the circuit, would the frequency increase or decrease, thanks

hello.thank you

I can only understand this in my own language.

Bro superb but what the direction of current when L is intially charged and also what is the direction if L and C initially charged

Which class

12th

Luckier you're

lrc!!

Excuse me, is the blue particles electron in the video? why the induced magnetic field direction against the right hand screw rule?

What if we reduce the resistance in the circuit and use a coil to collect the emf as electric current . Can we get free electricity for longer time ? .

Sir ji transformer ki winding me magnetic flux direction change krta hai plz tell me

The capacitor should be only half-discharged in the example with the resistor.

Fantastic video
I want to use a small clip of this video, if you permit I will mention the link and channel name there

There must be a correction, If I understand that right. The current through the discharging cycle of the capacitor will peak out at 3/4 th of discharge. From there on, it will reduce and becomes zero when the capacitor charge reaches 1/2 of its initial value. At that time, both plates have equal charges and the current flow stops.

★★★★★(5/5)
Thanks.

capacitor: ...
inductor: no u

Добавте третью пластину и играйте электронами в пинпонг.

Damping the enthusiasm: Mom says, "Oscillate. Capacitor bedtime!" (For non-English speakers, Mom says, "It's late, and past your bedtime".) By the way, really splendid video lesson and animation! Decays is closed.

Can a superconductors 'bridge' between the inductor and capacitor make it oscillate longer?

So the solution would be to have a cold circuit correct to combat decay ?

you wanna super slowmotion click the snail

When creating antigen overload which is defined as soriousis

I use this circuit for my inductance meter

Hi, What software you use to produce these nice animations?

What would happen if the whole thing were really cold, as in a superconductor?

Can you do one for bifilar coil?

It's a nice graphic but I'm bothered by the fact that in the opening graphic there was no effort made to synchronise the animation of the charge on the capacitor with the magnetic field in the inductor.

And electric railroads use this exact same circuit as an  "impedance bond"  to block alternating current for the signals from reaching direct current traction power supplies.

"You take my energy"
I love how they care for each other.

Sybau sar

What if we used superconductors?

In order to prevent that scenario you use a transistor. Because transistor is act like switch with very fast switch and this a continous current flow and youll make a oscillation sine wave.

Can I ask a question out from this topic ?😁
What will happen if earth starts to rotate in some other planets orbit or is it possible for two planets to be in the same orbit?😌
Just asking if you know this plzz explain it through your videos plzzzz 😌

Capacitor: no u
Inductor: no u

"no u" device

Ok but why does the voltage get like way huge across the inductor compared to the starting voltage once it resonates?

I have a quick question. Why there's a reverse EMF to cause reverse polarity of I-t curve?

What in case of superconductor used ?instead of normal conductors.

Dear friend can I use your video to Explain some thing to my friends in another language?

Gravitons radiated from an electric wire pull at both ends of their radiation, source and destination with a small positive charge and work with the electrons. Gravitons also work with gravity.

I want to know , the simulation software you are using ?

Built many in 1980 Long Wires needed for 400 - 702 KHz then?

what about super conducting materials?

Induktivitäten tun den Strom verspäten!

what if we use superconductor wire

Is it the principal of radio transmitter?

what is the background music can any one tell me

How do I make it run forever?

In the last graph, why are the periods changing?  Should the currents be crossing the x-axis at the same point?

Nice
I have a question. We know that LC circuit emits electromagnetic waves. But since electro magnetic wave has energy and momentum, is not the LC circuit loosing energy even in the ideal case of not having a resistance? Plz help some one or just guide me to another helpful YouTube video.

Think of it like a pendulum. The capacitor is like gravity and the inductor is like the inertia of the hanging mass.

If you start the oscillation on a pendulum, gravity first pulls the mass downwards and accelerates. When it reaches the center position, it doesn't stop because even though the force of gravity is no longer assisting it in gaining speed, the momentum of the mass forces it to keep going. The inductor does this by storing energy in a magnetic field, which continues to push the electrons in the original direction even though the capacitor is starting to act in the opposite direction. Only when the magnetic field have completely dissipated in the inductor will the capacitor be able to move the electrons in the opposite direction, thus reversing the current flow and causing the inductor to begin the generation of another magnetic field also in the opposite direction.

Is max current mean all Electron are no more in positive plate? Ty

By resistance, do they mean impedence?

If we use super conductor with almost zero resistance??

I didn't get anything I just thought he would put a battery inside the spiral thing

Of which material coil is made ?

How you create this type of videos

Eric Dollard lmd analogue computer

it still didnt explain why or how the inductor does that? whats special about the coil?

So if there hypothetically no resistance and you had a charged capacitor, the circuit current would endlessly cycle? Even without a power source?

I think BEMF must appear when magnetic field is at maximum and goes down. But animation shows that MF disappears even if current flows.

Please derived see back effect

How does the charger work

Is direction of magnetic field correct at 1:54 ?

explanation seems off from what i recall

Which  software do you use for animation?

If you added an amplifier, couldn't you have the oscillation last longer?

Transmitter kya hota hai samjhao please 🥺🙏🥺🙏🙏🥺 ee

In LC OSCILLAtions power once delivered by inductor is absorbed by capacitor and when capacitor deliever inductor absorb on a whole neither inductor nor capacitor delievers or absorb power it only rotates or oscillates between inductor and capacitor that why they are called lossless devices.. And they are called LC OSCILLATOR..

Thanks for the info it helped

Please make a video on hydrogen fuel cell car

Why does current start from zero when inductor is attached ?

tooooo simple theme for this channel..... Do you have a newbie in your team?

So super conductive lc circuit will oscillate indefinitely?

Isn't the capacitor neutralized once the electrons travelled through the circuit to the positive armature ? How will another new crurent be created afterwards ??

Is there a role of back EMF here?

1:41 
I think there is some problem in the explanation. When the charge in capacitor is zero, Inductor should have maximum field line i.e. at these instant energy is totally as magnetic energy.

mas não se pode usar um capacitor eletrolítico nesse circuito LC então, né? pq ele vai ser polarizado reversamente

Спасибо!

What’s does LC stand for

This system is underdamped oscillation where its damping factor Zheta ranges from  0 to 1.

Very nice ,Im trying to make this technology into a suit, a gravity suit I call it, the human circuitry is the hardest part, ? Very hard we are only using 10 of our Brains, meaning we produce  less energy not more,the Brain' can connect
To the Earths atmospheres

1:55
J'ai pas compris comment q differente de 0 ici alors que le courant a atteint son maximum ?
Normalement lorsque i=I max q=0

Hello could you test this software?  Look up androidcircuitsolver on google

My girl prefers low oscillations.

Intro music please?

1:28 shouldn't the current be maximum when there is no charge in capacitor?

Hey any one from excell classes

hello, please  what is the name of the software you use for your videos?! 
thank you

1:03

I don't understand how capacitor changed the polarity . It sounds strange to me.

And then the human touches the wire and the capacitor and inductor both say 'You take our energy earthling' ...

I think the circuit with resistor is described littlebit incorrectly, with resistor in circuit, all the electrons go to the other plate of capacitor. Shouldn't they balance the both capaticor plate?  like half of the electrons should travel the other side, because there wouldnt any voltage remaining to force remaining electrons to move to the other plate.

hello, what is the name of the software you use for your videos?
thank you

L: no u do oscillation
C: no u do oscillation
L: no u do oscillation
C: no u do oscillation
L: no u do oscillation
C: no u do oscillation
L: fine but i lost all of the Energy.
C: again?

How about magnetrons??

In your animation, the magnetic field is already gone at the end of the capacitor discharge. Shouldn't the inductor's magnetic field, built up as current flowed through it, begins to collapse ONLY once the capacitor is fully discharged ?

You say the current in the circuit is dissipated faster and faster by an increasing resistance, don't you mean a decreasing resistance ( lower Z number )

OK

1:30

YOUR 100 PERCENT MY  CHANNEL

Which software you have used for the animation..please tell

But the current flow is opposite to the movement of the electrons, right?

What if it was in a heated vacuum? Would there still be energy loss in form of heat dissipation?

Please adjust. 
The E- flow is more liken to a bicycle chain than the single E- as is animated.  
With the linking E- the flow will better represent the correct way the cct flow works.
One other point, as the E- leaves  one plate of the capacitor then and only then can another E- enter the other side. 
Please adjust the animated format and take a look. I await the results with eager anticipation

Sir, can't we use LC circuits in cell phones, which would not require charging it again and again😄🙏

ELECTRONS DO NOT FLOW... THE VIBRATE

*

is it possible only for AC or also for DC?

some info.   good work.     some commenters think   a single-layer coil   is not an inductor.   they are wrong.       coils are  really  amazing things.       as current flows in a wirewound inductor, electromagnetic affects   result in   varying amounts of  internal,   impedance/resistance.      see oscillating circuits, generally.      cheers
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LC_circuit

What sofware you use to do video?

Great video, but i have 2 things that IMO should be said/animated a bit differently:


1.) The RC circuit. Nothing wrong with the explanation, but with the animation. Energy stored in capacitor is We=1/2*C*U^2. Voltage across capacitor is caused due to difference in how many more electrons more are on one of the electrodes. The animation might suggest, that all of the electrons go from one electrode to the other one. If that was the case, then we would have voltage with different direction.


2.)LC circuit. The animation is great, but now i would change the explanation a lil bit. Firstly, when the capacitor is connected to the inductor current starts to flow and thus the inductor begins to "charge up" thanks to the according to the Wm=1/2*L*I^2. When the current reaches its peak the voltage across the capacitor and inductor is U=0 because the same amount of electrons is on both of the electrodes of the capacitor and thus no energy is stored in the capacitor(Or mathematically when the function is at its peak 1st derivative of said function is f'(x0)=0). The energy is now stored in the inductor and now the indcutor "pulls" the electrons from one electrode of the capacitor to the other one and thus charging the capacitor again. Rinse and repeat until the end of time

Excellent but needs a little more. Seeking to help / looking for clarification/confirmation: In an ideal circuit ,leaving out resistance. At maximum current  1:30 the charge across the plates of the capacitor and the inductor is zero. The ElectroMagnetic Field around the inductor is at maximum. It is the collapsing ElectroMagnetic Field which continues to drive the electrons through the inductor onto the far plate of the capacitor creating the negatively charged capacitor. Once the Field has collapsed then the negatively charged capacitor can restart the process again in the opposite direction. If possible, it would be good to overlay the interrelationship between the charge on the capacitor and the ElectroMagnetic Field?

which software did you use to make it ?

Lc

Would this circuit in a super cold environment like liquid nitrogen continue to oscillate indefinitely ???? Thanks

Of course it’s powers by a Minecraft diamond

but in this LC circuit, it can't be used an eletrolitic capacitor, since it's going to be reverse polarized, right?

This would not work with an electrolytic cap

Thank you for your job. Your videos are great addition during my lessons and help my students to learn. :)

350 x100v 22000 uf

Sir which software did you use to create animation?

AHH HA !

But in books it's states that the magnetic field energy becomes maximum when the capacitor is fully discharged and in the video this was not the case....
Please explain it

You take my energy
No, you take my energy
Sound like marriage...

why/how?

1:20

Laws of Hans Christian ørsted

ازل بالترجمه يحوده

Не так выглядит магнитное поле катушки ,  поток магнитного поля направлен с концов к центру катушки .

Yep, i noticed the first point too 👍🏼 that's not correct. Maybe in the LC Circuit it should be shown as reloading with plus-symbols 🤔

 @nikkocnn  no

xkerberosx1 thanks i didnt get it at first

My understanding is that when the current is at maximum, the inductor has the maximum energy of the circuit and the capacitor has no energy. This means there is no charge difference between the plates of the capacitor. Therefore at the peak of the current, the number of charges on the capacitor plates should be equal (50%/50%). Instead, the video shows that there is maybe 20% of the charge left on the visible plate, whereas the remaining 30% is in the circuit? I have been learning about the LC circuit today and the video only added to my confusion instead of helping. I think the video is horrible and makes me doubt that the people praising it have understood the process.

Many typos. Revise

Exact

@slackjaw Thanks.

Não  gostei .  Não  tem  tradução  . Tradutor ??????

Think electrical pressure from electron crowding instead of EMF if you really want to understand it.

I would like to see a setup like this made from superconductors. Do you think the current would slowly die down because of back emf from conductive things near by?

3.33M subs lol

When the charge in the inductor equals the charge in the capacitor the flow will stop as there is no voltage difference.   The circuit will not work as configured,  or the way you have described.

So, does it means not only it’s impossible to create more energy from less energy it is even impossible to maintain or contain energy within a “system”? The law of physics that energy cannot be created but only changes from one form to another still applies?  (My last physics class was more than 30 years ago).

Shanks

Applications?

It may be the ether making the resistance, try vacuum

My first observation: a "charge difference" between capacitor and resistor cannot exist because a resistor cannot hold a charge. All it can do is convert energy into heat and that implies it can have current flowing through it and voltage across its terminals. The relationship between the L & C values and the frequency of oscillation is not explained in the video.

Acha to laga lekin samajh nhi aaya

What are you trying to suggest by showing different blue ball densities in different parts of the closed circuit?

the simulation is not very accurate. It should have been when there is no voltage (no charge) across the capacitor, the magnetic is maximum.

I know it's necessary to convey meaning through visual metaphor sometimes.. and in terms of electronics it's good.. but energy doesn't flow in discreet packets that that.. once it starts.. the whole wire experiences the charge, not just beside the capacitor.. great video tho thank you!!

🙄🤔

Nikola Tesla is an absolute Genius

Which one of the following curve is followed by the the current flow in the LC circuit ? 

A)Inductor
B)Capacitor
C)Resistor
D)Diode

Woher weißt du das . Wiederstand danke Schüss

Who Remembers the old diode?

why does oscillations do not happen in RC circuit? When the opposite plate of the capacitor is charged after one half cycle? pls if anyone know the answer , tell on reply

0:50 This animation of current flow is depicted incorrectly through out the video.  This representation  shows current flow as blue dots WHICH VERY THEIR FLOW along a SERIES circuit  Theoretically this is not possible.  Current flow is the same everywhere along a series circuit.   If this animation were a true representation it would  mean an amp meter placed in series on one side of the capacitor WOULD NOT read the same current as another amp meter connected in series on the other side of the capacitor.  That is not the way the physics works.  Electrical potential measured as a voltage drop varies along a series circuit not current flow as shown in the animation.    Of the two types of energy storage taking place, capacitive and inductive, energy stored as magnetic fields in induction is the most difficult to conceptualize.  A capacitor can store energy in its electric fields while disconnected from an electric circuit theoretically forever.  An inductor can't store energy in its magnetic field without being connected to a voltage potential to maintain it.

Note that 0:50 is not really the way it works, electrons do not keep going until the pipe (wire) is empty like that.

You should need a perfect capacitor isolation also

No electric potential charge is ever stored in an inductor, only on a capacitor. The voltage across  an inductor is equal to the product of the inductance times the time rate of change of electric current flowing through it.  ( This is one of the many things taught in a first semester electrical engineering course - e(L) = L(di/dt) )

Yes .. you're spot on...

There's no evidence of the existance of ether

Are you sure you understand the operation of resistors? If there’s “no current” flowing through a resistor, the circuit would not work - at all. And “voltage” is potential difference. If you measure two ends of a resistor with an ohm meter, at a given input voltage, you will most certainly see a potential difference between the two ends.

net51cc 
I was wondering the same...

?

Germainium!

Slow but 0.4V volts if correct?

No bro in RC crkt... R won't work as source like L in RL crkt ... It drains all the current in form of heat

Rudhir  good question. I think you are correct. If all of the capacitor charge went from one plate to the other, as shown, you would have exactly the same initial condition in opposite polarity, and current would 'oscillate' back in the other direction, etc etc. But I think resistance reduces the amount of charge with each oscillation, until eventually both capacitor plates have equal charge. Same with a dead short, no resistor.

 @dans150  so it should oscillate in first  one or two cycles , initial conditions of oscillations are produced in RC circuit , however they are damped very quickly as the resistance provided by resistor is too high ,and only, initial conditions of oscillations are produced , so am I correct?

Resistor cannot “ store” electrical charge like an inductor(coil of wire), therefore the energy is bled off as heat.

bruh😑

Am from class 10😂😂😂

I'd like to see the current flowing uniformly across the wire. Not some charges running on one side while nothing is moving on the other side of the wire.

Which one of the following component stores energy in electric field ? 

1)Inductor
2)Capacitor
3)Resistor
4)diod

Uno reverse circuit

Why couldn't you instead have two Capactitors facing each other, what is the difference?

why does all the charge go on the other plate at around 0:50? shouldn't it have about the same charge on both sides?

nobody has could see the magnetic field

what about capasitor-capasitor combination??? how will the circuit behave then

Who needs cat  videos?!

46 Comments

Ummmmmm. Got it.

Dude your explanation doesn't considers magnetic field generation and collapse anywhere. So I consider its wrong. But great animation work btw

The subject is not clear

In the circuit with the resistor...why do ALL the elections flow from one end to the other?  Shouldn't it reach an equilibrium state where the charges are spread in equal density around the circuit?  Same with the LC, I wouldn't expect all the electrons to go to the other end.

in spanish?

What is the inductor needed for?  Wouldn't electrical oscillations still occur if the 2 ends of the capacitor were simply connected by a conducting wire?  And also, the animation of electrons flowing through the wire is incorrect.  The average drift speed of a conducting electron in electricity in a conducting wire is theorized to be much slower than the speed of a slow moving snail, which is nowhere near the speed of transmission of electricity, which is near the speed of light.

For the first case( resistor in circuit)one of the plate( initially positive) of capacitor will be negatively charged whereas another negatively charged plate will turn into positively charged then from it the current may also go. But why that's not possible??

How can calculate inductivity in inducter

Was hard to follow in totality

This is hard too understand

That won't work.

the hell do i know ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

That won' work, because an oscillation requires an exchange of different types of energy. A capacitor stores energy as electrical charge; A coil stores energy as magnetic energy. An oscillation occurs because the energy oscillates between charge to magnetic energy and back.  Another example is the old "cuckoo" clock based on swinging weight. The oscillation is from potential energy (weight rising highest and 0 speed " and kinetic energy (weight at bottom and at max. speed). If it wasn't for the loss of energy from friction, it would go on forever.

Because inductor doesn't allow current to become 0 . So it continues to flow in same direction

The capacitors will balance out charges rather than oscillate back and forth forever.

i was asking myself the same thing about the circuit with the resistor!

Exactly, some of the physics is not explained here. Like the magnetic field that resists the current... and the material used. And also the saturation point, as it cant resist endless current either. And the stored energy inside the material by magnetism, that gets released and causes the electrical pressure and polarizes the circuit. A better way to imagine it is to look at a pendulum versus gravity. Its all about stored energy. The push of the pendulum is symbolized as the capacitor that is already polarized and charged. A pure resistor doesnt store any energy... other then thermal energy, or converts the energy, more like it.

I meaning physical mesurements

No u

ADD A TRANSISTOR

Its physical application

The scared school evocatively raise because cooking arthroscopically fry behind a absorbed pint. gabby, flowery raven

How can a capacitor have one of its plate to be -vely charged and the other neutral???

There is no potential difference across an inductor as there is no electric field in a perfect inductor.

Theoretically theoretically could make the oscillations infinite then

.......when you realize what clever know are learning!

Well, know I know why human / scientist tries so hard in finding such super-conductor.
A conductor that has no resistance.

Please any one answer
Where did the electrons go from the circuit, at the end

Can we say lc circuit gives us the ability to convert DC to AC?

In that manner, Can I make a AC Voltage?
Please answer me?

After a feu math and experience and experiments is it possible to get Free energy ??
???? He ????possible??

the animation has few mistakes.

what does EMF stand for ?

If electricity is 'pushed' through a circuit, residual magnetism would remain. If your resistor is a light bulb and you turn off a switch, the electricity after the switch is thrown would remain in the wire to the bulb. It doesn't. You can insulate 100 % from heat if electromagnetism is strong enough. I believe static electricity from lightning could be used to start a device that could utilize electromaglev bearings (negligible friction) and create usable electricity.
Forget perpetual motion, we can't do it, but we can make a usable artificial charged particle on an usable scale. Charged particles and photons travel thousands of light years. We can match that.

Wrong explanation capacitor fully discharged still maximum current starts decreasing

Why do batteries run out of energy even though the energy is going back to the battery

Eliminating resistance helps to keep the circuit isolating. Three points in the later diagram can be improved. First at the coil replacement on both ends, the current needs to have no sharp turns, creases or bends in it. Or the current slows down there to make those turns to the path of least resistance. Large smooth curves into & out of the coil helps to keep the current speed high at those points. Then the coil magnetic field being regenerated helps to amp up & add speed to the current. Then the capacitor can be laid flat instead of up or down, to help keep the current speed higher at the station point of regeneration. Another coil placed after the capacitor can help to draw out high current accumulations coming into the capacitor. Then help propel to the main coil reramping of current. Coil sizes can vary appending on how much speed or resistance is needed to maintain the wanted amount of current regularity.

Gusto mo kantahan kita? Baka hindi mo magustuhan nakakahiya :)

IMPEDANCE BONDING.

You are looking at it in perspective, just one side facing you.   Not a very good representation, I think.

Yes if the wires are perfect superconductors with no resistance.
By the way I'm not sure if he mentioned ... this is is called a 'tank circuit'. Changing the capacitor or inductor value will result in a different frequency of oscillations

Minimal resistance

Charge is oscillating from one side of the cap. to the other side, in practice there is no zero resistance so the energy of the electrons damped on the resistance so both the charge on the cap. and the current of the inductor became 0 in the end.

Yes, but can you usefully employ the resulting AC? Not that simply.

An LC circuit does generate an  AC voltage and current.

Parametrically oscillates either the inductance or capacitance and you would have free energy.

is direction of mf field wrong?  haf rn, so things are a bit fuzzy.

No google?  Electro Motive Force  (voltage)

Perpetual motion is 100% possible if you know the secret of inductance modulation.

The energy is not going back to the battery, the electrons are.  In a non-rechargeable battery, one of the electrodes (zinc) is being consumed in a one-way chemical reaction.  The chemical reaction "pushes" electrons and they flow around the circuit doing work as they flow (a lamp bulb, or a motor etc.).   Before steel jackets were introduced, "dry" i.e. non-rechargeable batteries used to leak the electrolyte once a hole had formed in the zinc jacket.  The electrolyte was corrosive and would destroy the lamp or whatever device was being powering.   Even steel-jacketed batteries can leak eventually.

Kind of a novice, but if the magnetic flux is constantly changing, wouldn’t the inductor radiate energy away, even ignoring energy loss due to resistance?   I thought that’s how EM radiation was generated - by changing electric/magnetic fields.

This presentation is very misleading. For so much effort that went into the animation, it fundamentally misrepresents current. Current is rate-of-flow of charge, and is the same everywhere in the circuit. That is to say, the rate at which the blue dots move past any location (dots per second) should be the same. You can't have 1 amp at one location in the loop, and 2 amps at another location, as is depicted in this animation.  And if current is misrepresented, you can't convey the interaction with the magnetic field of the inductor, and the electric field of the capacitor.

Beautiful, but false :(. The magnetic Field is at its maximum went the capacitor is discharged. The inductor takes the energy, instead there is no conservation of the total energy of the system. :(

I think wrong concept is taught in here, in NCERT different theory is written!

Why capacitor discharge takes 1/2 period? It should be 1/4 of a period. I think that last animation is wrong.

1:56 "the current from the capacitor starts to decrease.." Does the decreasing of the current cause that emf polarity in inductor starts to change into opposite direction? After it is fully changed,  the emf will then change polarity of the capacitor? Then the changed emf is strong enough to attract/pull the current from the capacitor? How can there be an emf of opposite polarity when the emf only starts to form when current passes through the inductor? If we assume that electrons flow out of the capacitor, then when the capacitor is being recharged, the same electrons flow back in. How can a capacitor be charged a second time with the opposite polarity? What specifically causes the polarity of the emf in an inductor to change and as well of the capacitor to change? Couldn't the voiceover have said it more clearly?

The animation is not quite right. Once the capacitor is discharged, the inductor keeps current flowing in the same direction, to a certain point, and then it discharges in the opposite direction and this repeats.

lawda lassan take it now😑😑😑😑

Unbelievable.  The only emf is the charge on one plate of the cap.  One plate discharges to the other until they approach equality,  slowing until they're equal.  One plate won't fully recharge the other.  The coil will resist the change in current,  but only until the opposing  emf slows it  too. 
Did you measure this yourself with a Hall's effect? This doesn't seem right.  - unless current has momentum -  the inductor would be the dampener . . . right? I don't see it.

I think the magnetic field is in the wrong direction

Sir please accept God is one Allah

Clicked the video instantaneously as fast as the speed of light.

HAHAHA, THE ONLY THING HE TELLS YOU IS THAT HE CAN'T DEMONSTRATE SUCH A SIMPLE SET-UP IN REALITY!

Your analysis is incorrect!

First!

0:40 - current flow??? You can't be serious!

Not a great explanation, also the animated electrons are completely wrong in that they don't move from one side to other of the capacitor in the way you've shown and when it is fully discharged with the inductor the electrons should be moving quickly.

Think I remember seeing Magnatron as an extra in the last transformers movie :-)

Good Animation, but please fix it: When that magnetic field is at a maximum. The capacitor is fully discharged. At 1.31 (and 0.02, 0.12, 0.22)  Once that magnetic field is collapsing, the capacitor should be beginning to charge in the other direction. The end of the capacitor discharge is at 1.31 !.  Your animation shows nothing at 2.06. No magnetic field, no current, no energy. This is wrong.

Fr! I once heard something so mind blowing, & peer reviewed delivered in a facepalm cringy manner.. If planet earth and cosmos were utilized more. Nothing worse than a botched NDT

If the capacitor is air, then yes.

Brother what you are telling is in the case of DC but this is AC current it's value changes with time so we use RMS value for current in AC

 @sauravbhandari3273  yup u r right in AC monetarily it varies...at every place

if you go and look in deeply or study the origin of this Current and Voltage u will find out that the speed of some of the charges slows down for some negligible amount of time  in the minute level but u do not need to go deep in DC

 @sauravbhandari3273  If you look at 0:43, for example, you see the electrons are moving at a uniform velocity in the entire loop, yet in part of the loop they are bunched together,, and in another part of the loop they are spaced apart. This is a visual depiction of a higher current and a lower current in two parts of the same loop, with no additional branch to add or subtract current. That is a violation of Kirchoff's current law, and is patently wrong. Yes it is true that at extreme high frequencies one has to factor in propagation delay, but that is far outside the domain of this video. The video is just plain wrong.

But its not?

Because it takes 1/4 to charge up before 1/4 to charge down to 0.

found this on internet
When you dump current into a coil, it builds a magnetic field. When the current stops the field collapses, and generates a voltage with a polarity opposite to the voltage that made the field. Since your cap is still attached to the coil, this voltage tries to charge the capacitor to the wrong polarity, and destroys it.

Actually the charge movement  (fastest voltage change) is highest at 0 volts when the charge is equal. If you take calculus, you'll understand that the slope of the sine wave is steepest at y=0 (here y is the voltage).

It is not the current flow it is the electron flow i.e. inverse of the current flow direction.

Abhijit Majee congrats great man

 @nestoriori88  😂 Thanks

You can't be serious. If it was what you thought it would have been the current flows with an s.

Thanks for this video and the channel is great. I recently ⭐ted my own channel and would love some feedback

This is really bad Students, look elsewhere. 
Think about it "why doesn't the RC circuit oscillate, once the electrons end up on the other plate?" Because this video is very misleading, that's why.

Как все чётко и ясно ! ...не то что на  шелупонских роликах приуральскЕ  учОных с тАрфянЕкоффф )!    Как начнут онЕ  с подробных  биограХвий свАих прабабушек    и урожаев с их огородов,  так и продолжают-до цен на водку и до  рецептов поклейки обоев..) , забыв даже тему

Not a good explanation

this is not real. There is no current mouvement in cables! LIERSS

This explanation isn't correct and even misleading.

Hmm, the explanation not up to your usual standard of comprehension

The animation is wrong

I also know this fact by calculation and i can imagine the fact!!! But after watching this I think, everytime I find l-c circuit; this video will come in mind, first...!👍👍👍

How fast would this oscillation happen? If I were to put a green and red bi colored LED in series with this circuit would I be able to see the color change? Also in order for this circuit to work what values would I need for each component or do they just need to have the same impedence? Any help would be appreciated!

I thought a 'Magnetron' was like a 'Flux-Capacitor' - made up by Hollywood

Why there is no translate to Arabia
لماذا لا يوجد ترجمة للغة العربية رجاء ترجمة

Actually, if you could not show electrons flowing from one end of the plate to the other, but instead show that the electrons just next to the plates and in the entire circuit drift inside and outside with varying velocities, then that would be much much better.

Guys, I'm electronics engineer graduate with nearly two years without any job,, applied thousands of times, the place I stay in is lacking electronics majors,, could you please help me what shall I do? cuz I found my degree is useless at the time with companies requires 5+ and 10+ years of experience!?

Electromagnetic wave in free space:
You, at 90 degrees, take my load.
One quarter wavelength later. The 90 degrees new born is becoming an adult. It look over and says: you, at 90, take my load.
Now, this new quarter wavelength look like the original, but is inverted by 180 degrees.
After four cycles of self induction, the wave successfully dragged its own house in free space, like an escargot. No aether needed to propagate an AC signal in the vacuum of free space.
It is like this LC oscillator but the inductor is open air, no ferrite to accumulate the magnetic flux. But no risk of saturation neither.

(Learn Indian Engineering) don't listen to misleading Audio explenation😂 When the capacitor discharge, it is discharged (RC or LC) circuit. 😣 However in "an ideal LC circuit" current exchage back and forth where iNDUCTOR's MAGNETIC FIELD push electric charge back to CAPACITOR's ELECTRICAL FIELD, and vice versa 🤓

If you get rid of the resistor and put the Inductor and capacitor in series you can control the Oscillation And significantly increase the voltage and AMPS BY Pulsing DC You get a greater torque if you build it into a motor. BUT KNOW ONE  HAS THE BALLS TO DO THAT. DO THAY

That's a coil not an inductor. The visualisation is misleading for the explanation.

Second

Energy can’t be stored:) Energy is a measure of movement

TOVARISCH ⚠️👉🇬🇧👈

MB  Maybe your comprehension is not up to the usual standard of learner.

if you put LEDs in series, the circuit will become uni directional, so better to use a simple bulb  (but that would introduce resistance and brightness will only go down with oscillations, real fast).
The frequency will be 1/[2*pi*sqrt(L*C)] oscillations per second. So higher the values, slower the oscillations.

No. It isn't always helpful to be 100% realistic with animations. You understood everything from the video, didn't you? And not everybody has your level of expertise to begin with. So this is fine.

 @mrniceguy4277  Yep. Your point is the positive side of this argument. But what I've noticed is that people even at my standard subconsciously understand current as a train of electrons going from one place to the other even though they have learned about drift currents and relaxation times. That is because they have been taught that way since their childhood. Also, LC oscillations is decently a high enough topic to allow the viewers of this video to understand the drift version of current flow, rather than the old, middle school one.

What do u mean by "drift inside and outside"

 @rgudduu  Do you know about drift velocity?

Election train 🤣

Try applying for positions related to your studies... but that you're overqualified for.  Gain real world experience humbly, and in time better opportunities better related to your degree, will be available or offered to you. Pride is expensive,  proving your worth and willingness to take initiative and work hard will take you a long way. 
My brother for instance got his start (civil engineering) testing concrete for a modest wage. He now manages the estimating department for a manufacturer of precast products and used to manage the estimation dept. for some large engineering firms. He used to farm himself out to head hunters for advancement opportunities... but you can only do that once you have relevant experience.

 @davidhenningson4782  thanks mate

I'm an electronics engineer too n m extremely berogaar yet 😭😭

 @smartgamersify  its alright

   I'm glad you replied,, i will but the most major i prefer is oil n gas-related which requires massive experience nowadays to apply  for...

   If its attached with the reader and then you may track according to the emissions

the symbol for an inductor is a coil.

Failed to show where the energy goes to in the resistor (heat), hence the dislike

