"Best" is a relative term. All three work, but if you prefer to use polyfil it'll get the job done. You just need to use more of it than the other two. 

And I'm only looking at the ability of the stuffing to damp the interior of the box from the perspective of that one panel. The real difference between these is probably low enough that it really doesn't matter. 
With that said, when compared by weight, fiberglass and rockwool nose out the polyfil by a small margin.

My preference for fiberglass mostly came from almost always having some on hand. I like to use what I have and tend to be realistic about the differences between materials. Even if there is an audible difference, a difference doesn't necessarily mean one is better than the other. 

Moving on to direct panel damping, rubber damping was almost useless and doubling the panel thickness is effective but mostly down low. Double layer CLD is effective across the tested frequency range. I would consider that to be something worth doing if you are looking for peak performance. Like I said in the video, it can be combined with stuffing to make it even more effective.

Important to put all of this in perspective. These differences are relatively insignificant when compared with other much more important design considerations when build a speaker. Driver selection, box design (volume, alignment) and crossover design are orders of magnitude more important to how the speaker will sound.
I do these tests to demonstrate just how small the difference actually is between these and how little they will affect the sound.

I found it odd that the various stuffings weren't directly behind the woofer. I always thought the role of any stuffing was to absorb/diffuse the rearward wave of  the cone and flatten the impedance curve, kinda like how the vintage dynaco speakers did with their aperiodic design. Every acoustic suspension speaker I've ever opened up had the stuffing directly behind the woofer.

This is what every YouTube video about audio should look like.

I did some tests 25 years ago with an SPL meter, two 12" subwoofers in a sealed enclosure (trunk tire well enclosure) and various amounts of polyfill.  I did individual frequency plots on a graph, 1Hz intervals.  I found that adding polyfill decreased peaks and extended lows.  There was a threshold where overall I started to lose some amplitude on all frequencies if I stuffed the enclosure too much.  It was a great experiment to prove to myself that spikey response in a subwoofer can be tamed some.

I just found your Channel last night. My goodness do I appreciate what / how you are testing. I have a few projects that im procrastinating on and now im glad I did. Thank you

Троелс же использует войлок ( у стены) + слой синтепона , они в паре работают на СЧ и НЧ, в блок НЧ битумная автоантивибра ещё нужна на стены.

I'd like to see the results of just gluing acoustic foam to all surfaces of the inside of the box. Use the type that studios have on the walls. The 1 inch thick stuff with the triangle cuts.

I build my encloser from 3/4 inch (19mm) Burch ply. It had a slight buzzy ring. 

So, cut the front baffle off, put a heaver mid brace inside. Then used 'Flex-Seal' brush on rubber on all surfaces inside and out. Then I lined the inside back and sides with a scrap piece of "Mohawk" Berber carpet but no other filling. 

So much better. I do not have all the 'Wiz-Bang' test gear but to these damaged Tinnitus ears, it sounds so much better. I have ear damage that shows up as a 20 dB White Noise shusssss all day and night.

I really appreciate all you contribute to the community John. With this video, there are some real issues 
1. You have the accel on a planar face that is not decoupled from the emitter
2. This means that the majority of the energy is transmitting usiing the mechanical box
3. As you increase the damping, it is an internal airspace mod in terms of the standing waves but in your case the transmission change is almost negligible because its still using the box as a wave guide of sorts to the top of the box...being a membrane.

I dont use any planar facings in any of the enclosures we do and they are proprietary masonry thats is extremely engergy absorbent (200mm can stop a 50 cal) and generally cast in a single piece.

BUT 

Its quite amazing for tuning the boxes if there are critical issues

You can also do progressive damping by using acoustically inert diaphragms, tuning them to required freq and suspending them in the internal fill material which creates a type of hemholz if you really have issues esp in larger boxes. There is a noticeable choking that happens when I load a single driver sealed right up.

Great vids and always challenging!

I like your scientific approach and testing.
Raw data doesn't lie.

I have always been a fan of the "CLD" technique, have glued thicker MDF panels with silicone inside factory speaker enclosures many times always given good solid results.
Great video👍

I once built a pair of speakers based on the CLD principle. I used MDF lined with ceramic tiles, sheet glass and aluminium sheet bonded in place with rubber based adhesive. Back corners had panels giving triangular vertical columns which were filled with sand. Stuffing was traditional long-haired wool. The resulting floor-standing enclosure was exceptionally "dead" but each box weight 100kg.

Humans have a knack for making claims without actually testing things.

Two great videos, thanks! The preferred CLD method in UK DIY years ago was bituminous felt panels (a thick roofing product) covering all box internal surfaces. I built the Wireless World Tabor DIY design using Audax drivers using this technique in the late 70s. I had many comments regarding their excellent sound quality. When it comes to bracing, the matrix method first introduced by B&W and, later, used by Paradigm is beyond the capabilities of most DIYers. It is used in my present speakers Paradigm Studio Monitor 30s purchased twenty years ago that I have never felt the need to replace. However, I must admit I'm tempted by the KEF LS50 Metas with their use of a sculptured disc to absorb high frequency energy within the box, truly revolutionary and a tribute to British engineering.

Box stuffing of course is not all about panel resonance, its also there to control back pressure influences against the driver cone itself, which can alter cone behaviour and driver output.

Stuffing is not for dampening panel resonances. Stuffing is for controlling internal box reflections, tuning the Q of the enclosure, or increasing the effective internal volume.  Panel resonance is FAR more affected by bracing, material choice, and with direct contact dampening materials like vinyl or NoRes.

THE BEST BRACING material i have found is laminate flooring cut into 20mm - 25mm strips and epoxied vertically and horizontally in a cross + on each panel internally.  

Glued on the edge BTW so it stands up. And glued to each other at the corners as a lap joint.

An idea of fillings inside the box is to HIDE some air inside the box(inside the cavities in the fillings)...so speaker cone is free to move, fiberglass whole is the best i find, you get better dynamics ,Bass become more pleasurable

When Dr. A.R. Bailey designed his transmission-line speaker, circa 1969, at the University of Bradford in the UK, he favored well-teased-out, long-fiber, natural wool. Of course the city of Bradford was a hub of the West Yorkshire sheep-farming industry, so availability might have been a factor.

I would have put the stuffing right behind the woofer.  Also, try lining the inside with No-Rez dampening material as a comparison to an empty box - I would,bet that this alone would make a huge difference. The rubber lining you placed was way too thin to make a difference.  The CLD method sounds interesting by sandwiching silicone in between the wood, but you have also effectively doubled the thickness of the wood. I would be interested to see if glueing the two pieces of wood was just as effective than the silicone.  Interesting tests, thank you for posting!

This is all wrong. The whole idea of stuffing a box was not the dampening effects, it's the ability to cancel waves and make the box appear "bigger" if I am thinking correctly. I don't have the math in front of me, but I've seen this test done here: https://youtu.be/kc4AvfomdIQ?t=612

 @wwlittlejOfficial  you are correct. It dampens too but generally the goal is to get a deeper response i.e. the woofer acting like it is in a bigger enclosure. It is def more for tuning than dampening.

​ @wwlittlejOfficial  That is correct.

Lol I usually use polyfill because I have it on hand. Anytime I have an old pillow I'm going to get rid of I gut it and throw it in a bag.

I wonder how it would change by doing a combination of all three:  CLD, rubber sheets and fiberglass stuffing.   Would be cool to test and see the cumulative effect.

What would be the effect if you'd put acoustic foam on the panels inside walls?

 @JoRuss  
In this accelerometer test, most likely nothing would change.

Mineral wool or you call rock wool is nasty to work with but it works great insulating 500 to 600 degree pipe

U

Troels Gravesen recommends Pure sheeps' wool - to my ears it sounds wonderful !!!

If you want to prevent the walls from vibrating you need to install constrained layer damping (coincidentally this was the preferred methods of Earl Geddes also). The wool is for damping the internal reflections mostly.

Best material to use is actually sheepwool. What happens in  the box is that particles of air are rubbing on the damping material, loosing motion energie by creating temperature. All natural hair has much more surface than artifical fibre. Thus (as already mentioned) the speaker "sees" a larger volume as in an unstuffed box. As the resonance frequency is rising with smaller casings, a larger casing is always better.
I once built speakers for a bar. We experimented with different amounts of stuffing, until we, as a bunch of 4 people all agreed to having reached an optimum in this given room. I can only encourage anyone to try that out. It might be a bit of effort. But, hey: you wanna listen to those speakers for a while. I had used 2 fullrange speakers per box in an already generously sized casing. We hung 'em from the ceiling, so they wheren't even in the way of anyone (and safe from beeing tipped over ;-)

you should try Bubbled wrap

Hi John, if damping the resonance of a cabinet is the goal then a slab of marble or equivalent stone might be better. Basically that's what Wilson Audio does by saturating their cabinets on the WATT Puppy (and other models) with resin until they are practically fossilized; absolutely no resonance.

​ @patrickthunnus  You can use braces to change the panel shapes, to reduce the  size of the areas.

I've opened some older ones (from the 60's) that had wool material on the sides bottom and top, but nothing on the back wall. When I added rock wool to the rear wall it hurt the bass performances alot. So, I decided the people who designed them knew what they were doing and returned them back to stock. The bass came back. Not sure why

Probably back wall is used as a reflection to reinforce bass from front. Bit like bass reflex.

The Dynaco A35 is an interesting sealed design where the woofer chamber was greatly filled with mineral wool, and then a slot in a wall divided that chamber from  another chamber which was empty!

with my EPI 150’s i did add a front to back brace as well packed as much poly as any teddy bear could take. 2 way speakers are always a battle with bass and muddy v clean and tight

No not nessescarily. Not directly any way.

indeed. You first want to cover walls with thin layer. Then add thicker layer in corners and keep little room behind speaker for air to move free and spread  in box. Large walls you brace in middle using wood

Stuffing has to be in the middle of the box to impact qtc.  Polyfill is fine to use.

so this test is wrong, rigth?

 @chicotruco  no, this test is fine. That's another test for you to make a video on

That's essentially lowering the Q by slowing the air, thus the driver appears to have more internal volume to work with. Up to 40% of the internal volume is effective, if i recall. Check with ChatGPT/Bing/Bard.

That's really cool, and I've seen your results repeated elsewhere on YT. Adding polyfill does have a point of diminishing returns, but until then it will reduce bass resonance.

And as you probably noticed the cabin resonances are not really the big issue in speaker building.

Thank you for these tests, very interesting. I had the same idea as CLD, but I want to use vibration dampening materials from the car audio industry, they come in sheets with adhesive pre-applied, quite convenient to use and specifically designed for this task.

There are 2 problems to solve. 1 is to absorb the sound in the box so that it doesnt radiate back through the cone (using filling), the 2nd is to suppress panel vibrations being transmitted mechanically by the driver to the cabinet by constructing a rigid/well-damped box.
My methodology over many years is to use shelf bracing, often several horizontal and vertical in larger speakers (think B&W matrix) to raise the resonant frequency of the panels where they can be more easily controlled, then glue 1/2" felt to the walls and finally fill with lambs wool.

Damping material isn't to primarily stop panel Vibrations.
It is to lower the reflections internally inside the box so there is less second, & third harmonic distortion caused by the back Wave inside the box from bouncing off of the interior of the box that reflects off of the interior walls & hits the rear of the speaker cone causing Harmonic distortion.

Thanks for sharing your thoughts and ideas.

I had good luck with lining the inside of my speaker boxes with thick speaker enclosure carpet stapled and glued really good sound quality

Thumbnail looks like you are stuffing raw chicken into speaker ;)

It was great that you tested a wide variety of materials, but it should be compared by volume, as well as weight.
Another material i haven't seen used much that i plan on trying my own tests when i get the chance is closed cell foam, not sure if any of you have had any experience with that.

Speaker fill has two purposes: to increase the relative internal volume "seen" by low bass frequencies, and to absorb mid to high frequencies. 

That being said, there's not a situation where speaker fill will dampen the side panel resonance, unless you use an enormous amount of fill. 

If making a 3 way design, the mix woofer should be sealed in a separate enclosure, and densely stuffed. The reason to densely stuff the mid woofers compartment is to eliminate internal reflection, which would otherwise interact with the woofer and cause resonance in the frequency response. 

For the bass section, if ported, then an "ideal" amount of fill should be used based off the internal volume. Since the crossover will limit mid and high frequencies, the main purpose of this fill is to increase the relative volume, and therefore the bass output. 

In a two way speaker design, ported, a hybrid approach can be taken. Dense fill behind the driver, loose fill everywhere else. There's plenty of online documentation demonstrating the best method to fill your speaker based off the speaker design.

I've seen this in a magazine years ago and the conclusion was wool is better than glass but wool will compact over time and end up worse than glass. 
The glass is more stable and consistent over the years.

To me, using fill is never something I do to “fix” cabinet wall resonances. It’s only to help reduce standing waves or port resonances within the enclosures. I have tried many types: polyfill, pink insulation, Dacron, rock wool, demin, etc. The way I test is with impedance sweeps. I have found that lining the walls with 1.5” fiberglass is the best in midbass speakers. I put cheese cloth type material over it in ported boxes for piece of mind. Putting filling in the cabinet like you did dampens the airflow to the port which reduces output. I think that’s why people say overstuffing boxes will get weak bass. 

In subwoofers I use 3 inch pink insulation because it does the best job of “increasing” box size. Again, I only line the panels and adhere it with spray adhesive or hot glue. It works best with slot ports because you can get large even coverage. Getting a 30% increase in theoretical box size is common in common shaped enclosures. Whether or not that box volume gives an output increase or just changes the port tuning is still up for debate in my lab.

To fix cabinet resonances, bracing is the only thing I’ve found that truly makes a significant enough difference for me do it. I know your measurements show that it doesn’t help at higher frequencies, but my cabinets really never have any resonances that high other than ports. Honestly I’m not sure why your getting such high peaks on yours. Maybe I just don’t notice them as much as the low 100-400hz ones.

Don't know if I will ever build a speaker but if I do I will remember this technique!

Great experiment. Gives great examples as to why to brace and double baffling with cld!

You may try to drill holes in the Inside of the panel in a Helmholtz resonator pattern that you compute to act around the most offending frequency.
About the same as your acoustic panels just inside the  speaker box

Would love to see a further dive into different CLD methods, when you said CLD I was expecting a solid rubber layer not caulked silicon, interesting!

Thank you very much for your video. 
Have a great day!

Watch this as 2xs Speed. Great video, thanks

It's for internal reflections so they don't pass back thru the drivers.
Lining walls with butyl that has attached foam is what you want for panel resonance.
Pack poly fill behind your tweeter a little tighter than normal. 
You will hear more distinction between tweeter and woofer.

Well done!

Well done experiment. Thank you!

What a great video!  Learned so much.  Thank you.

That exactly wot l thought, 🤭

PS love yah John . Been watching for at least 8 yrs?  Need more orig 90s rock shirts  I kept recognising shirts I got at concerts during early 90s

Hello mate. Ive got a pair of celestion ditton 44 mk 2 (with the passive radiator) what filling should I use? Thanks in advance.

 @zukispur5493  if you think you are having problems with cabinet resonances you should consider putting some additional bracing instead of just adding filling. If you are trying to get rid of standing waves or internal resonances then I’d start with a 1.5 inch thick insulation, rockwool or fiberglass should both work. Since they are sealed with passive radiators you shouldn’t need to worry about dusting.

nice video bud, very useful info

Useful information. There are soooo many different materials used.  Nice to see someone putting some effort into this area.

I like your videos a lot because I don't have the software to take some measurements, but I have to agree with some of the comments posted that stated damping is used mostly to avoid sound from the bass driver to bounce back in the cabinet and coming back with a delay and smearing the response. The fact that some materials are damping the cabinet walls is just an added bonus, so that material should be placed in the area around the mid-bass driver to absorb or slow down those pesky resonnances. My preference goes to acoustical foam because it is a very efficient sound absorbant and its elastic properties damp slightly the cabinet walls and stay where you put it. Beside what I have said before, I still appreciate the efforts you put on those videos, they make our knowledge about acoustic advance by leap and bounds. Thanks!

great video, i always seek to improve my cabinet designs.
i have not done much testing, but i do like to use things that have weight to it, when a 20 liter box has 1 kilo of bitumen or a kilo of damping stuffing then things are having an effect.  i use "recycled textile fiber", its pretty heavy and packs in pretty nicely(for sealed box only)

Subscribed! Thanks.

Man, you are a fking unit, i think the same way as you do, like, a 3% in thermal conductivity its matters, but dont. loving your videos keep it 100, i love this test with every possible material o technic, tecsrry for my english

Thank you.

Very interesting! what software were you using for the test? The damping material used is usually to control the resonance and other box parameters without regard to panel vibrations. Speaker enclosures can be viewed as filter networks, particularly for vented enclosures (such as Butterworth alignments.) However, controlling resonances will indirectly control the amount of energy available at any frequency to flex panels. You might consider using a measurement microphone to measure the acoustic radiation from a panel as opposed to the contact sensor on the panel. You might consider a box made of mdf instead of plywood. Mdf is a good material for do it yourself enthusiasts has high density and greater acoustic losses. Internal bracing is also effective in reducing any panel vibrations. Of course if you really want to eliminate you can build enclosures out of concrete, which I did for a customer in the mid 1970s. Wharfedale had speakers, which you poured sand into a sandwich construction enclosure in the 1960s. A speaker box has 6 surfaces, the most important is the baffle which is aimed at the listener, any radiation from top, sides, and rear are radiating into the room and contributing to reflected and not direct sound. The bottom of the speaker if sitting directly on a floor is coupled to that radiating 'panel', which changes the sound. That can be modified in a number of ways, a layer of material such as Vibrathane, a large mass (concrete), speaker spikes, or a combination of these.Keep up the good work! - Paul - former speaker designer.

Another thing to try is to put a cavity between two panels and fill it with sand. This should be even more effective than the CLD.

One more experiment to try is to mount the woofer compliantly to the box. Add a ring of soft material between the woofer and the box. I read a study years ago and that had a big effect.

John, very interesting video. My thoughts on dampening materials had always been centered on the driver output difference, or lack thereof, but seeing how they changed panel vibration was intriguing. However being you have this setup ready could you please do a quick comparison of the effects on driver output? Too many times I've read differing opinions on the subject and I believe it would be beneficial for more than just "Toids DIY Audio" ( iirc) having tested the subject on video. Thanks either way though as now I know I could use less bracing and more stuffing if necessary.

Nice video! 👏👏👏 One suggestion for the same video.... May it could be interesst to show the same test with the same speaker in different types of gabinets. Ones that TLs are in theory non ressonant...

I always used fiberglass but recently have been using rockwool. I think it works even better.

Thanks

Thank you for this, I love these type of tests, one thing I've heard of was car sound deadening sheets, have you ever tested those? Thanks

Great video, for years in car audio I used to put carpet padding on all sides of the inside of the box! Except  the subwoofer side, Thanks for the video.

Love your testing, I am afraid cld increases the volume of the sound coming out through the driver but maybe more stuffing will compensate for that and still be the best.

i'd love to see a similar video (if you don't have one already!) covering how these different kids of stuffing materials affect the response/impulse measurements from a microphone. i recently built my first "kit" speaker, the desktop minis from GR and there are certain things i'm finding i'm not a fan of. they have a weird upper midbass resonance or chestiness to them, i realize i'm probably using the wrong terms to describe. some electronic music seems to sound harsh, gratingly metallic in the top end. there's probably not much i could do to help the latter, but i wonder if i should have gone with rockwool or fiberglass instead of polyfill, if that might have helped with the midbass/midrange. (i'm not bashing them, i think they were a decent value for 200 bucks) i'm excited for my next project either way

Ha! Nice to see the sandwich panel at work! 
I believe a thinner, more even layer of rubber adhesive damps better than a thick layer of silicone (because the glue is working in shear mode?)

Thanks for the video. I would just hang a thick blanket in strips... my metta 👌🥂☮️☺️

To me the stuffing also helps preventing internal acoustic resonnance or reflected waves propagating back to the speaker cone. Thus it would make more sense to compare the sound capture than the vibration.

Sorry for the late comment as I just found this video.  For this setup given the simple single speaker, you could take acoustic measurements close to the speaker (say 6" or so), and the room dynamics would be insignificant.  Therefore you could quantify the speaker acoustic output (albeit only from the driver) with measurements for each setup and see which changes (if any) happen to the sound from the driver.  Just saying a vibration is insignificant could be strengthened with actual measurements.

It would be interesting to try some form of wood fiber insulation, as it has a better sound dampening effect than rockwool.

I have much success with dynamat. Make sure you have a roller and get it on tight. Many speakers simply will not have enough room for getting the dynamat properly installed. I put sound barrier on top on it. 
Only helps poorly braced boxes that have low frequency resonances, mine being 300hz specifically.

Interesting. I've had to deal with sound attenuation on a couple of building projects that needed some serious noise reduction. Your fill test with different media was conducted by weight rather than volume, I think that it skews the results. The mineral wool at about 3lb/cu.ft. vs fiberglass at .6lb/cu.ft. doesn't utilize the density advantage by volume filled. That's still a marginal advantage anyway. Your conclusion with vibration inhibiting barriers that create isolation is the best process. You may even try a sound attenuation drywall that incorporates an isolation barrier built in. Pricey stuff, probably close to $100.00/4x8 sheet. Another product that works very well is a caulking called Green Glue, specifically designed for soundproofing and attenuation. Fasteners that bridge the isolation barrier( like screws) will negate the full effects of isolation. It take a bit of thought to bypass that sound transference issue.   Good stuff John, by the time you are done you may blow all my suggestion out of the water, or I may have contributed. ;-)

Thanks for putting this on YT.  Very interesting.

Great effort here, but have to say the shape of the cabinet is close to a cube, which can have significant standing wave problems and is less typical of the taller / thinner shape of many of todays speakers.  A good experiment would be to buy actual speakers (whatever you can afford) and test these with their damping and remove it, then test other damping alternatives. The cabinet bracing would be held constant of course as you'd have a pre-manufactured product.

Any thoughts on bracing asymmetrically? I'd like to see you test with an accellerometer attached right over the brace and on each of the panel sections created. Even summing those three (amplitude and phase) would be a very interesting excercise. 

I'm building speakers right now, an planning to use some of the leftover materials for asymmetricaly placed braces, lots of polyfill (almost getting a rash from just thinking of glass- or rock wool). and possibly adding glued/stapled on bitumen and heavy felt. The mains will be an active cardioid solution with front and rear drivers in a common volume, rear inverted and delayed to mimick an output more similar to a theoretical U-baffle.

What about an equal volume(m^3, not amplitude) test? 
Also it would be interesting to see some difrent laminations and even more complex bracing setups.

I use wall insulation the one they use to insulate walls on homes and it works exelent i have some vintage sony speakers and what they use is polyfill sony speakers dont come with a crossover an on top of that they use polyfill and they sounded horrible i put a pair of crossovers and pulled out the polly fill and put some wall insulation inside and wow! what a diffrence it made your right about the polyfill its horrible a lot of electronics companys cut corners so they can make a product at an afordable cost   them and in the process they end up selling garbage to the consumer you got it right polyfill is horrible

I would like to see a test using a calibrated mic in front of the speaker.

I've used eggshell foam padding sprayed on glue on all the panels but obviously didn't test with anything... just used it bcuz I had some laying aound and I figured they use that similar setup in recording rooms

I used 2” foam padding inside a ported box. Stapled it to walls.

Lost out on higher notes but gained down low on lower hz music.

poly fill worked great in my Pearl Master BRX bass drum.. night and day difference

Polyfill is a fantastic sub killer. Gets shucked into the coil gap and overheats the subwoofer.

I tried my old thick acrylic mink blanket and it worked way better than polyfill. Polyfill simply dumbs down the lows.

Would be Interesting to see a test of "no rez " a product made for this purpose.  I was also told vinyl floor tile with foam glued to it would work well.

I'm open to the idea that I'm all wet, but from my understanding CLD requires a decoupling surface like foam to isolate the mass-loaded material from the panel. That's what prevents energy from transferring from one surface to another. Applying it with silicone just bonds the mass to the panel.

I once went to a disco (in the early 80s), where they had concrete speaker boxes.... It sounded alright, though.

Johnny...Make you box out of Durock board then fancy them up on the outside.

My last boxes i filled with, believe it or not, Baby-Clothes. Never got a bad comment abt the sound.

No rez ist wie bo dum 800 viel zu teuer.  Schweissbahn auf Bitumen 4-6  mm dick bedämpfen auch gut bassreflex gehäuse

​ @thomasschafer7268 agreed no res is very expensive to get shipped to Canada

But. the purpose of the stuffing is to change the acoustic impedance the speaker feels on the back of the cone.  In particular, that impedance should be the conjugate of the existing impedance from the combination; speaker cone mass, suspension spring, and air mass load on the front of the cone.  Being a conjugate, the reactive portion of the acoustic impedance felt by the cone is balanced (equals zero or -j0.0 mathematically), so that the cone drives a purely resistive load.  That yields maximum power output and linearity over frequency.  Box resonance is reduced as well, but there are better ways to control box resonance, such as interior dimensions, irregularly shaping, rigidity, and contact damping (like DynaMat).  Minimizing box resonance doesn't correlate to optimizing impedance, unfortunately.  Hope this helps.

Stuffing?  I'm stayin'!!

Been doing this a long time and learned I like 0.25" thick matt on every surface sounds best. Ill use very little to no stuffing. If I do I stick to natural fibres. Recycled denim is exo.

Looks like I'm making my next box out of 2in thick granite. 😁

Density of materials vary a lot so dosing by weight will get you very different volumes of fiber.

Stuffing for reducing panel resonance is iffy. Best if it lightly touches or is attached. Stuffing has three basic functions. Absorption, ability to make box appear larger, and delay. Open foam rivals fiberglass for all three, and rock wool functions similarly except density varies. Polyfill is just not as effective at all things except it usually spreads out well. Cotton is another stuffing and wool.

seems like combinations of all methods/materials is best.  double walled closure + poly + (fiber or rockwool) + rubber/asphalt sheets on all inner surfaces + 'meaty'  rubberized exterior finish/coating should yield even better results.  rarely is it a one-and-done treatment on quelling resonance... cheers and thanks.

There's only one way to eliminate panel resonance and that is to stick 20mm thick bitumastic panels on the inside !! This really works !! 1inch thick heavy duty carpet felt is second best ... forget all this stuffing ... that's only used to make the enclosure seem larger to the bass driver and lower Qb ...

Good effort, but I can't understand why you didn't put the fillings behind the woofer section,  because by filling just half the speaker cabinet with sound deadening material would allow sound waves to bounce around quite happily in the bare cabinet woofer section ! Another option would be egg box foam placed on all sides of the cabinet, or even 1/2" felt pads stuck to all internal panels, maybe try those suggestions next time round 😊

Fiberglass cotton is nasty stuff to work with, I used it to insulate an attic and a porch and that is the extent of using this material, would never use it in speaker enclosures. 

I had poly-fill cotton on my 1982' home-built V-ported La Scala Klipsch horns, inside the woofer cavity, for tuning purpose but recently, while cleaning them, took it out and I am getting better sound from them. They are crispier though, but I do not run them at high volume as in my younger days.  

I also built a set of shelf speakers, in the 80's, these mini cannons, bottom V-ported which I also used poly-fill to tune them, but the real deal is in the additional Formica sheet reinforcement over 3/4" ply they are built from. The best solid shelf speakers I have built, why I call them mini cannons. 

Whatever sounds satisfying to one's ears is what counts, but the object is obviously to replicate live music as close as possible.

When you brace in the middle of the box you up with  two panels of the same resonant frequency, this is why asymmetrical bracing and trapezoid boxes will generally give you a better performance. Mass does work but is best with Multiple techniques of dissimilar Materials that will not exasperate resident modes. Enjoy the hobby. 😀

I guess I should continue with my urethane filled cld panels/enclosure! Also what I've been using for fill is ultraTouch denim insulation, the absorption factor is as good or better than rockwool/fiberglass, it's kind of messy to work with, lots of loose fibers but I just hate fiberglass.
Love the work your doing!

I use the pink panther fiberglass very minimal fiberglass dust and really dense also to damp my panels I use the 120mil butyl rubber with floating floor sound and vibration damping adhered to it, so count the volume of your box an extra 3/16 of an Inch in all internal Dimensions, Also, when I have enough, to make my panels, I use Wilsonart 950 flexible adhesive and glue three 1/4 inch mdf panels together to make one 3/4” panel, And they pass the knuckle wrap test like knocking on concrete

I built a 2 qft interior sub box for a 10 inch 400 RMS - 2 - 3 inch ports and 1/4 Cork 100% lined.  Build material 1-1/8 thick stair plywood.  I thought it worked very well.

I found early in my salvage of speakers to reuse in reused kitchen cabs as speaker cabs that fiber fill is ineffecient for adding enough mass in th enclosure to increas bass tones fron the box.. my silution was to use foam rubber from old couch cusions.make a cup of foam just large enough for the speaker then fill the remaining space with more foam, the result is no internal sound reflection and deeper bass. making a 2 cubic ft box sound 2 or 3 times its size. at first I used cotton upholstry fill then found that the foam rubber worked much better,

2:55 I thought you're talking about damping and not about repress or quieten sound. This is not the same. sound damping means that you will lower the velocity and energy of soundwaves. Repress means that you will improve the enclosure to be quiet and take down all responses or resonances, making it 'acoustic dead'. With this accelerometer you measure how good your enclosure represses the forcees that are treating it. The reduction of enclosure movement in combination with the damping-stuff is a result of the reduced wave velocity and energy that is absorbed by the polyfill etc. 7:14 and 8:16 this is a good way to improve the enclosure. By mixing materials with different resonance-frequencies you will get a better result, Many high-end speaker builders use rubber mats as a final layer inside. Stoneware or ceramic tiles put some weight on larger sidewalls. You only need tiles on 60-70% of the area to have a good result. You can hear the quality of your work by knocking on your box. It will sound dull within a lower frequency. Then you can start damping your boxed in air. To much damping stuff can be contra-productive. Ported boxes don't need much damping, in fact they work less good if you put stuff into the way the air should move. They only need some flat panels on the sidewalls to dampen the mid frequencies. A 6th order bandpass sub dosent need any damping at all but will get better with a solid enclosure. Long things short: Polyfill is pretty good and it's cheap. You get NO advantages if you buy high end super state of the art Polyfill wich is 'extra' designed for high quality sound. That's bullshit. You even could use ikea pillow-filling with the exact same results. The only thing with this stuff is that it mostly comes in little pieces. They are a bit difficult to get them to stay where they should. But if this is no problem you could use them. Greetings from Germany.

I have been under the impression that stuffing was to dampen internal parallel reflections. Dampening the walls by rubberizing and bracing is in no way polyfills job, apples and oranges.

Awesome test, ive always found fiberglass best also, but what about trying the no rez that danny ritchie uses, i had it in the encores and was amazing stuff, but more expensive.

Informative video, thanks - I am super curious about the accelerometer connected to REW - what sensor was used?

I'm surprised that the panel transmits so much energy in the higher frequencies according to your graph. I would have thought it would only affect the lowest frequencies.

You are correct it would help him if he moved his brace off center

I would have thought some deadening strips between the box endes and rear panel would have given a better result.
Stopping any chance of wood chattering against wood seems like it would have more of an effect

Very informative. Thank you. Would like to have seen result of using rubberized lead damping panels. also in CLD between plywood and mdf. Just curious.

The middle layer in a CLD composite is supposed to be viscoelastic. Silicone is highly elastic and minimally viscous and so seems like a poor choice. Viscosity is required to dissipate energy as heat (damping). An elastic material will just generate a panel with different resonance characteristics but no increase in damping.

You have use  on all sides to get the best results and use rubber bond in and out  it lower hi peak and cut box peaks

Interesting series mate. Used to work as a Q&R for Bowers & Wilkins many moons ago in one of my brief career deviations. Materials, material density, isolation and insulation is something that can be talked about without end. As is shape and compartmentalisation. Whether you want a speaker characteristic or a flat response etc. All about marginal gains at a certain level. For DIY'ers, I think your info is sound.  Good stiff box, braced and plenty of fixings as you've done. Also driver sensitivity matching as best you can which I think you've touched on. Acoustic loose fill stuffing (looks like cotton wool) is effective and cheap alternative to the stuffing options you've shown. Particularly good around internal bracing.

Hi, I always enjoy your videos. Can you tell us which accelerometer you use and where you buy it? Thanks

Do this, or some other test, with those ELAC speakers. Let's see if we can get Andrew Jones into the comments section!

I had a question, where can I get one of those accelerometers? And also is it trs or xlr connection?? awesome videos always interesting to watch, keep it up

I like to coat all my boxes with under coating or rhino liner an then ad some poly fill if need be cause I most people want a little box in the trunk of there cars an I find it to make a big difference but all the testing I never did I don't get that into it. I know if it sounds good then I'm happy.

I wonder if anyone ever tried using self sticking carpet tiles in the speaker cabinet. I wish John would have tried that.

I always thought that the purpose of stuffing was more to dampen that hollow sound you get in an empty box as opposed to damping the resonance of the panels.

Thanks for this really good video.    Do you have details of the accelerometer you used, and what method it uses to connect to your computer, etc?   I would like to try to replicate your experiment method to help with some speakers I'm building.
Happy if you have an affiliate link you'd like to share. Thanks again.

I don't understand why you think that the stuffing is intended to damp the panels. It is an air damper, preventing cavity resonance in the box.

John I also found fiberglass is much better. Poly just don't have the density and mass to absorb much energy.

Looking at the thumbnail for half of second I thought you're putting raw chicken in the speaker box.

Oh, and another product to test, and I'd be very interested in the results, is NoRez from GR Research.

Glass and rock wool slowly decomposes by the time, because of the mechanical vibrations from the sound. This glass dust particles make huge damages in the coil and spider area. We had this issue with old Telefunken TLX 2, 3, Kenwood trio LS, Pioneer and RCF speakers. Sometimes beyond unrepairable.

All the stuff u use to fill a speaker box with is tricking the speakers into reacting as though there’s more air space in the box there really is and slows the movement of the driver we would use quite a bit of it it for people who listen to jazz mostly for that smooth response

Can I suggest making the box our of birch !

Natural lambs wool, I find is the best, because its a natural & not man-made, like fiberglass & polyester dacron, that colour the sound, nice video👍

How can they use fiberglass with vented enclosures , just imagine all the tiny glass particles you are breathing . 😥🖐🔊😡

yes, you can damp the standing waves/resonances, but just a tiny bit. the best way is to put boards horizontally and vertically inside that partially reflect a wave. also using layers of light and heavy dampening create reflections between them. many different reflections result in shifting the energy from a single strong/loud resonances to many different smaller resonances.

Fiberglass is like sandpaper

Wow 
Thanks for information !!  
Never would've thought 💭

So basically you had 50+ years old speakers and their filling was a problem? LOL.

@Munakas-wq3gp you want me to open My original TLX? Wait few months, then I will show You. Someone in the past was a barbaric repairman…..

I'd love to see how natural wool performs as a filler, i dont like useing fiberglass espexialy in ported speakers, all those vibrations are going to start blowing out fibers of the stuff at some point

I purchased safe and sound intended for 2x4 framing. Haven't used it yet.

Maybe try open cell rubber foam , little bit thicker.

Poly is for artificially expanding the cabinet.

over time the fiberglass is a better  thermal mass. as a sealed box heats faster/greater as the motor gets warm.

How about multi-layers of damping from light to heavy? Low bass will go through most things, only mass absorbs it. Less heavy layers absorb higher frequencies

well what about a thicker rubber speaker gasket,rubber is used to stop vibration but would it show results with your test ? which i really enjoyed thank you,im one of those people that never go overkill on bracing and using double walls on enclosures,i cringe in using a double baffle in fact i use 3/4 mdf but when i go to put my double piece on i actually just use 1/2 mdf.my bracing is kinda like well whats right above your head ? if your sitting in your house look up,in the attic theres 2x6's vertical so i use a couple pieces of light weight pine not treated pine 2x4's and put them vertical under the baffle with screws on each side of the box and screws going into the 2x4 from the top.thats just me.ive never cut picture frame shaped bracing,to me it looks like it would interfere with back waves.

Try 1inch mat foam all round the box

Since you used two equally thick layers with silicone in between you actually mad CSL pretty ineffective. Silicone itself is not good for CLD because it stores energy but this is not the main point. You should put CLD where the shear stress on the visco-elastic layer on the greatest i.e. on the outside layer of the panel. Interesting experiment would be to use damping glue, even silicone would do if nothing else is found and a thin layer of aluminum. When I say thin I mean like a thick foul or beer can thickness.

Try it with roofing or dinitrol for the car

Sounds as if CLDT Technique is kinda like a passive radiator.

I’m going to make 3 way speakers with 3 different boxes for each, all separated from vibrations.

The inside of a cheap pilllow is the best material..coat the inside walls and it will sound better..

Maybe try Carpet padding? Its cheap and I think it would do well… just a thought 💭 Jer

Damping is proportional to the density of the material.  So light weight fluffy stuff isn't very effective.  If you pack fiberglass in at high density it is very effective.  Pretty much any textbook on acoustics will show this relationship.

My understanding is that stuffing mainly reduces reflections from coming out through the speaker cone, and any damping properties are secondary. It would be interesting to see this with a different box design.

What would be even more interesting would be a double walled box with sand fill. This is supposed to do wonders for resonance. I would be most interested in seeing it with a big driver in a big box, vs a small driver in a small box. At what frequency does the sand stop doing anything?

Thanks, I enjoy the content.

i have a lot of old pillows not a lot of the other stuff

I prefer Sonic Barrier Acousta-Blue Denim for not only the sonic damping aspect but also because it is hypoallergenic.

Since as you say the advantage of fiberglass and rockwool is the higher density, I'm puzzled as to why you would disadvantage them by putting in the same weight as polyfill and not the same volume.

Nice test!  Another option is the CLD with thinner panels that’s about the same thickness as a 19mm MDF. I bet the CLD wins.    The old speaker books and articles always showed better performance from fiberglass vs poly stuffing, and the really old articles from the UK mention sheep’s wool as the best stuffing.  Also, what about the speaker output due to the stuffing?  I thought the speaker output is smoothed out because the stuffing damps out the interior acoustic resonances.

A small amount of stuffing/carpet especially on the inside back wall helps break up standing waves.  But the primary reason for lots of polyfill type stuffing is to act as an air spring....i.e slow the speed of sound down a bit. This has the effect of making the box look bigger to the speaker  

But this is only if a small amount of stuffing is used and packed in a "fluffy" manner.  If the box is packed too much it will have the opposite effect and actually increase the sound speed and make the box look smaller. Plus all this packing comes at the cost of some damping and efficiency loss.

The CLD has the most potential, for sure. Probably a combination of panel thickness and stiffness and size to arrive at the best result, but by then it might be deep into the rabbit hole and the time would be better spent doing something that produces more net gains.
I would like to get some wool to try, though.

​ @IBuildIt wool waste is the term. regardless of what the livestock are being reared for, they will need to loose their winter coasts lest they get too ott in the summer!

the value reimbursed to farmers, sadly, is minute as the bottom dropped out of the weaving industry years ago.

free wool waste for all? ! ah. not quite; still needs washing aaaand i have a nasty suspicion that it will be a right party hotel for clothes moths unless treated, or sealed cabs (inc front loaded horns)

have seen food distribution companies ship chilled goods to homes in a WW lagged container, sadly didn't get my grubby paws on a sample.

:-j

Some very high end speakers use CLD with a thin metal layer sandwiched between plywood.

If you use sheep's wool you might get some ba ba baaing above 1K!   Well, bad joke of the day.

 @stevenholt5484  the bass will sound wooly

In my view, real wool is best. 
Good stuffing will add to the enclosure's apparent volume as it stores the compression as heat.

I have used Dynamat and acoustic foam panels. Both did better than filling the cabinet.

This is an interesting test, but I was always under the impression a thin layer of stuffing attached to the walls was dampening, but stuffing in the enclosure is tuning for a enclosure that is slightly too small for the speaker, the stuffing slows down the waves in the box causing it to act bigger.  

That said, I'm not sure how much sense that makes since a solid should conduct sound faster than air, but the explanation has aways been that you're preventing a direct path, kind of how insulation prevents a direct path for heat to escape by capturing some air volume. 

Not sure I buy either explanation, but you can audibly hear the difference in the speaker most of the time.

FWIW, I've always been team fiberglass even though it seems like polyfill is preferred everywhere.  I've typically used 'glass for my own stuff that I didn't care as much about and poly when it was supposed to match some spec or someone else's standard.

Great testing , very useful. I’m looking to use on my JBL 100 as the old fiberglass is looking nasty . Any test on full range speakers ?

Now here in Germany we have a product called 'Reckhorn ABX'. It is a 2-2.5 mm thick sheet of butyl, covered with aluminium. It has a weight of 2.5kg/m². I would be really, interested in what that does to a panel. It has a relatively high density, so it doesn't take away a lot of volume, but also dampens really well.

Scientific experiment entered the chat! 
Esa Merilainen (author of current-driving of loudspeakers) 
Also ran some tests. 
He concluded that cotton cloth performed best at converting sound energy to heat. He also said tissue paper worked. I think he packs his enclosures with these quite tightly.

Bracing has the largest effect by raising the resonant frequency of the panel beyond the point that the driver, when crossed over will excite the panel. And by varying the location of the bracing so that no more than 2 panels share the same dimensions helps further.

Fibre glass is stable, and that's it.
Wool is good, but not stable, so sound will change, but it's safe.

The silicon is very interesting to me as I made a turntable support from 2 pieces of MDF with silicon in-between. This worked really well.

Very interesting as usual. I wonder if using rubber sheeting between the two panels instead of the  silicon would have more or less effect.

I'd love to know how well long haired sheep wool fairs

Hi John, what are your thoughts on both of the "Worlds best speakers" videos by Tech Ingredients? Thanks

Measuring it's R factor should determine how much acoustic insulation you need and it's effectiveness. And also how dense you can make it and how easy to adhere the enclosure walls. I used to use lambs wool and also a material called Tufflex. Lambs wool was especially effective as it had a very high R factor but it was also difficult to work with and had a tendency to settle. Tufflex had a decently high R factor was easy to cut, came in rolls and (similar to foam) was rigid enough to stay in place.

Damping people, damping.  Not dampening.

Hi, you have nice videos. Everything you test in this video is nonsense.. from my point of view. :-D Test some material that has closed small air spaces. For example, polyurethane foam crosslinked under increased pressure. The material has excellent elasticity, is heavy and the individual air cells are smaller than one millimeter. Again, from my point of view, it is one of the best materials. However, I have never measured professionally, it is only about the resulting feeling of listening and the function of the material. Similar material can be found in sleeping mattresses, but it is usually a coarser version that has larger air cells but also works well. I would be very grateful for your opinion or if you could make a video and the results with this material. Thank you John, you are doing well ;-)

Surprised you didnt test 'acoustic' foam variants. I have some old B&W that are just lined with some 1 or 2 inch thick grey foam. Other boxes ive seen use adhesive foam. There must be all kinds of foam. What about memory foam? :)

Hi John, thank you for the video! The following is my uneducated opinion. What if instead of using a bid of silicon gluing plywood and mdf, try to sandwich a whole rubber mat between them? Plywood layer actually seals the box, so anything outside do not need to be sealed. Also instead of rubber mat, the polyurethane mat can be used. The only parts that can transfer the vibration between layers are screws, but they are located, I believe, in the places with the least vibration energy. So, vibration has no choice but go through the mid part of the sandwich.

A well presented video. I like the control of parameters in one way. Having done quite a lot of work recently on exactly this type of internal dampening there are a few things to add. You have to keep something equal in the comparisons and that has to be in order for there to be a valid test of properties. Mass may not have been the best choice to create equality. Your explanation of how a fibrous panel can dampen internal energy from the air pressure created by the driver is spot on. Perhaps a more equal test of the different fibres would have been equal volume. With the Polyester fibres there was great contact with the box walls, and the glass fibers were in great contact with the box walls. The mineral wool was not. When you look up in the specs from each company that makes the insulation panels you'll find that Rockwool has a broader sound absorption than fiberglass when measured in thickness. I'm talking normal North American stud wall cavity thicknesses. Carpenter to Carpenter ( :) ) you know what I mean. Rockwool seems to have the edge due to what you referred to as the problem with Polyester Fibre. Mass. Rockwool is indeed heavy stuff. When in intimate contact with the cabinet walls it changes the cabinet wall behaviours. 

Again spot on is the attention to the resonant peaks at 350, 680, and 1.8 kilohertz. There is an approximate numerical relationship to these. They could be harmonics. And I'd love to see a impedance and phase plot to see their relationships. I'd be willing to bet that they are indeed harmonics. And this is the box singing along with the woofer. Note how some of the harmonics are actually louder than the signal. 

Nice demonstration of the panel bracing. That is a DIY loudspeaker myth as large as thick panels. Slaying the dragons one by one. Just because everyone is doing it does not mean that it is the best thing to do.

Last thought. Placement of your absorber is also a variable. You had a resonant cavity behind the woofer without any absorber present.

I think the best way to absorb is a long pipe.

Large wood shavings, to wind up the trolls

So you used a combination of both? Can you point to those products?

Sound waves are pressure waves moving through a medium like air, water, wood, plastics and any other material that exist. Some materials like rubber, foam or cork are good at damping pressure waves because of their elasticity. This mean they absorb and redirect that energy, transforming it into heat (yes, that's right, heat). The proportion in sound to heat ratio is quite low, but enough to slow down the sound waves and lower the cabinet rebound sound, particularly in the midrange. With some crossover artifacts like a notch filter, it help the speaker sound balanced without killing the dynamics.

Nehm Bitumen schweissbahn  das ist billiger.

My tests show that it's harder to do that than it seems. The panels need to be very small to drive the resonance up high enough, which means a ton of bracing. And in a fullrange speaker there's always a driver that can excite it,

the theory behind it is, that the silicone layer has a different "wave resistance" than the wooden panel. that creates a reflection. so, one single wave is split up in two waves, one that goes through and one that is reflected back. better is to have three wooden panels with different thickness and two silicone layers. then you have 4 reflection points in that sandwich where the energy is bouncing back and forth multiple times and therefor getting absorbed a bit more.

I found 3m make some very specific rubber sheet. I wouldnt doubt they have something suitable.

Was Tufflex something like Kimberly-Clark's "Kimsul" ?

Rubber is a good idea but i would put it as a final layer on the inside of the enclosure. This is more stable.  You will get the best results if you mix materials with different resonance-frequencies. A ceramic tile on 60-70% of the side and backwalls (inside) will quieten your box too (may some rubber or bitumen on top of the tiles).

Thanks Mark :)
Hard to equally portion compressible material by volume and I think that would be less of a fair comparison because the rockwool is much denser than the other two. It would be the clear winner, just like a heavyweight fighter would easily beat lightweights of the same age in the same ring.
And I don't see the empty space as a variable, since it was empty for all three.

 @IBuildIt    I agree with you assessment that the heavier product wins. Hands down. But isn't that the goal in DIY audio? To take the state of the engineering art farther. DAmn the torpedoes versus cost and time involved. And be willing to intelligently apply these gains in our own creations. This is done for the companies that I design for. Apply the best of what is out there and connect the dots on the stuff that is either not published or simply becomes intuitive with greater experience. Keep these videos coming. You have a good handle on this stuff. Much better than I have seen from many people on YouTube or otherwise.

 @IBuildIt  You should be able to find information of the density of the different materials. If you have that, then you could easily weigh out the 3 to the match the volume ;)

Hey i was wondering can i use the same principles as soundproofing a wall and eliminateing echoes by using  like cone stryctures in all typses of hights to absorb the resonant frequencies or will that make the speaker sound dead? i am not experimenting with saw dust with pva. i made a speaker and i need a thicker front panel its a bluethooth portable 200w speaker so theres not much space. to be honest i would need to remake it cause the 100w sub is way to much for the thickness of that boerd but i was wondering if i could make a putty and just make the wood thicker that way. the first small plate i made isnt dry yet after some 15h but it looks like the adhesion is greeat and it seems to stay somewhat plastic and moldable maybe when it dries it will harden but right now if i can use the spike type of structure this would be amazing material to do it with.

Have you tried using compressed chip foam or carpet underfelt / underlay. zig zag it in the box. Try high density foam.

Try and make the box out of birch 🌳 ply and sandwich bitumen or sorbothane in between.

By the way, i like the idea to use an accelerometer. How you rigged to the laptop? Is there an interface in between? 
At this moment im using my cellphone app.

Stuffing does not stop cabinet resonance.

You want panels vibrations if that dampens the back wave. Wood and foam, concrete and rubber etc

All of this also relies on how much power you have for instance you could be running 2,000 w and polyfill will work better

I built speakers in my youth but never had access to the tools available now, so I have no experience with them.   That said, I have a feeling you are scanning the frequency range way too fast.   In my experience resonances take a while to build up.   It makes sense right?  Like if you push a kid on a swing it takes multiple cycles before the resonant amplitude builds up.    You are not spending enough time at any given frequency for a panel resonance to build.  (IMHO).    So.  Have you ever tried scanning much slower?  I would be fascinated to see if that makes any difference.

Have a crappy rear truck cabinet that needs stuffed with new woofers. To many standing waves. That being said I found out Acousta Stuf is very expensive now so,,, fiberglass it is!

I'm sure you'll read this. 
Please be the first to test a non Newtonian inner layer. 
Cornflour/cornstarch fluid lined. Even woodglue mixed with cornstarch should do it.

interesting.

I always had look at speaker as a form of a piano- box with a mechanical equipment generating unique sound, why stuff the speaker box if the idea is to resonate the natural material with sound production of the speaker and finding that unique sound. Or am I over looking the process of sound-vibration?

I'm very new to this, so if this comes off as stupid, please forgive me.  But guys, if the idea is to stop the resonance, or vibration, of the box, why not drill three small holes in the sides of the cabinet, 1/4 inch say, to relieve the air pressure and take the pressure off the box.  I understand that there will be a little mechanical vibration, but still the total should be less.  Am I totally off base here?

Interesting but think the main problem is that every speaker binded to the front just vibrates direkt to the wood ... And just isolated works best as box design not just stuffed in

you forgot car dampening sheets

Isn't part of the function of stuffing to reduce internal reflections around the inside of the box as well?  These reflections can be bounced around inside the enclosure, and get redirected out through the driver out of phase (or in phase) and affect the sound.  In this case, would it not be better to actually line each panel with stuffing, to absorb these reflections, rather than just randomly putting in a plug of stuffing in half of the enclosure?

I wonder what filling that section with open cell spray foam would do.

hi John... pretty late to the party...i wondered if you have tried slower sweep rates, or, indeed, how your sweep rates run?
in spectrum analysis, to fast a frequency sweep kind of "aliases" into the results, and, depending on the Q of the resonant system, you can easily sweep right past a peak... anyway, what do i know 'bout speakers!

Back in the 1950's and 1960's JBL (Jim Lansing, the Lansing in Altec Lansing) used a proprietary particle board.  This particle board was made with random sized wood particles.  The purpose was to make a resonate free cabinet.  The resonant frequency of the particles were random.  This effectively prevented the wood from resonating at any one frequency.  I read somewhere that the actor Richard Boone gave him the idea.  Even the Ranger Paragon used this material with a fine vaneer overlay.  Plywood is not a good material for speaker cabinets.  All the laminations are the same size and resonate at a common frequency.

Just wondering if you have tried cncing a diverse surface inside the box?  Similar to room treatment.  Might be fun.

What you are describing is marketing hype, where you say a material does this special thing (like not resonate) and that gets the buyers all jazzed up thinking they are getting something special.
In another of my videos I show that even if the speaker doesn't vibrate (impossible, by the way), the walls in the room will. And depending on how the wall is built it will vibrate as much or more than the speaker cabinet panels do.

I have also used vinyl floor tile to line the cabinet interior, along with foam, and insulation.  I believe a combination of materials might be effective too. Sorbothane and Desadamp are two other products but are definitely more expensive. Did you try testing the woofers output to see if there was any change to the frequency response?

Thank you John for this.  One thing that I would have liked to have seen done was to get the best results possible with the material you had, and not worry about the material being physically equal.  So what is the best that you could get using various amounts of Rockwool vs various amounts of fiberglass.  I understand that this would have taken much longer and it is way beyond my patience but it may be worth a try.

Wouldn't most builders stuff based on volume and thus a test based on that be more valid

Would it make a difference if the 1/8 rubber was loose? Maybe just corner staples to hold it?

Although your measured responses are from the vibrations of the enclosure, you do not show any measured open-air responses from the actual drivers. One could imagine that certain frequencies could be affected by absorption in different ways by different stuffing materials. However, it is interesting to see that box resonances are not changed very much Then again this is fairly obvious, as the vibration of enclosure is affected mostly by the choice of its material, their thickness and weight, bracing and whether the insides of the panels are damped by an additional layer of damping material, especially viscous ones or heavy stuff like lead sheet.

I enjoy your videos. I have not built a speaker yet but I am very interested. I restore and tinker with cars as a hobby. When I saw what you were doing with the silicone I couldn’t help but think about the isolators that are used between engine intakes and carburetors, especially on high revving race engines. They do reduce resonant vibrations that cause problems for the fuel and air. 
What would be the effect of isolating the woofer and tweeter by gaskets or silicone? I understand the purpose of a rigid box, but what happens if gaskets or silicone are sandwiched between all of the joints? Of course using a ported box. 
I’m sure I’m way off here somehow, but I am curious.

Stuff this!

I stapled wool army blanket to all sides inside a ported box and…. It sounds good to me 😐

What about foam acoustic panels glue them to the walls of the enclosure

The purpose of "stuffing for speakers" is not to "damp the interior of the box" and the test methodology used here is not appropriate to demonstrate benefits.  Measure the impedance peak in various configurations.

Does anyone know which big companies made their cabinets like the CLD construction ? I know that JBL made their TI and L series out of a CLD cabinet (SandwichSonicWall). Thx.

Have you tried a combination of plywood - polymer coating - plywood and an unequal cabinet?

any thoughts on sheep's wool?

Frankly, I don't see any reason to compare by weight. You are always limited by volume.

An interesting test. Those materials are not meant to change the resonant frequency of the panels but dampen the driver. There are lots of better alternatives for panel dampen

John, great content... so refreshing. 
I'd be interested in another pathway for that panel excitation you're exploring... mechanical. 

Experimenting with mechanical reactionary energy off the speaker basket/flange... as a corruptive force feeding your accelerometer. 
Kef's Laurie Finchum and Jack Oclee-Brown have explored this extensively. They designed and implemented isolation system to address it. 
In the Blade for example, the coax unit is a module entirely isolated from the cabinet, thus mitigating corruptive energy in either direction. 

I realize you can't explore everything, yet I did want to share. 
Thanks

The ideal way to create a non resonant enclosure is to use 1inch thick plywood formed into a curved back ... like B&W do in their Diamond 800 series

What if I use the foam that you put the walls in the subwoofer box?

once I read (I don't remember, maybe in Popular Mechanics Mag)  about small speakers, inside with cardboard/aluminum/foamy, to "enhance" the sound and make the box to be shield agains magnetisms). can it be "good option" to add those?

Pond filter wool is cheap.  I wonder how good that would be.

I have used combinations of “dissimilar” materials of various density in a few speakers I have experimented with and the results were satisfying from an auditory standpoint. I used polyfill along with rockwool and strips of Noico sound deadening mats. Overkill? Possibly but I was satisfied with the improvement in response. The cabinet was deadened substantially and the Noico helped greatly in that regards

These tests can be used to decide how to get the best results without actually doing that. 
But then the definition of "best" isn't an objective standard in audio. What's best for you might be less so for someone else - no, definitely would be less so for someone else, given how picky and contentious audiophiles are :)

 @IBuildIt  ...re the last sentence... with some (many?) audiophiles it’s almost more important to find materials that can marketed well rather then work the best. An example is that FG has been criticized in the diy forums for many years, which are full of comments saying don’t use it or get rid of it.

You can use cellular rubber (1 or 2 mm thick) to reduce resonances and to mount the chassis airtight. Also a ported box needs an airtight mounted speaker. Mounting a chassis with some kind of rubber-metal-mix as they use on engines (Vergaserfuß in German [carburetor-foot]), the chassis would beginn to move in any diections. This would take a lot of acoustic energy, especially in the hights and cause many problems more. It would be the best mounting if the speaker is the baffle itself. No airleaks, no noise transmitting. Use the right screws and thighten them equally and it will work fine.

Damping is damping. It will damp everything inside the box - the airspace and the panels. This is the way that I chose to measure how effective the damping is, by measuring the panel.

I appreciate the videos. Your tests are valid and prove those materials don't dampen enclosure well however what they do well is change the q factor of the driver simulating increased airspace which is proven and tested with frequency measurements.

I did something similar many years ago where I cut a 1/4" slot around the outside of the woofer frame through the baffle, then filled that open slot with silicone rubber. So in effect mounting the woofer on a flexible ring.
I then tested the amount of mechanical vibration that was reduced, or at least tried to. I was using Arta at the time and it would plot the accelerometer output in a CSD, but it made the level non-relative to a set standard, so I couldn't put a number on the amount (if any). 
I may give it another try in the future, but I think that the amount of noise generated by these issues are generally not worth the mitigation efforts. Certainly time and money would be better spend elsewhere in practical terms. But then audio is filled to the brim with people who's expectations and understanding is anything but practical, so I can see why some manufacturers pursue them.

 @IBuildIt  
I too have attempted grasping the significance of these things, but so, so difficult to actually determine as a diy'er, what's what.
But in audio, pursuing the diminishing of each and every non-linearity you encounter, of any type, and addressing the accumulative result is welcome. 

Yes, there's more bullshit issues and solutions, than legit and quantifiable tweeks and workarounds. 
But still, chipping away at legit corruptive influences pays off... however small, moving in the right direction is the point after all.

Your right, sister! But do you know many woodworkers who can afford those kind of machines! They are worth millions of $.

Hi John. Do you think something like 3M's VHB tape would work better then the silicone? Kinda pricey to cover the side with it. But it's a 1/16" thick and kinda like a neoprene foam so would/may act different then the silicone. 
Also, do you think there'd be a difference made with how you've got the panel attached? Gluing it to the box vs the screws as used? 
Thanks!

I am more interested in improving the bass of a large woofer in a small box .

There is an additional effect in putting fiberfill or fiberglass  inside a closed box system. When you fill the box with fiberfill or fiberglass, the material slows down the passage of sound waves through the box, making the speaker react as if the box is bigger. The result is that the Fb (resonant frequency of speaker mounted in box) is lower when the box is filled with fiberfill or fiberglass than when the box is completely empty. My experiments show that the effective volume is increased by a factor of 1.2. This effect is far more pronounced than any reduction in panel vibration would be. Better to brace the panels. My trick is to use dowels between the back of the speaker and the back wall of cabinet, one dowel for each mounting screw. This method locks the front and back of the cabinet together and cuts vibration way down. Your experiments did not produce this effect because you only filled half the box with fiberfill.

link/name for the accelerometer?

I am rebuilding a set of Berkley cabinets for my 12" Gold Monitors. When I originally built them in 1972 and used Rockwool for sound deadening. I have worked in multlex theatres installing sound panels. I have a few left. They are one inch thick of compressed of what looks like insulation.  What are your thoughts on putting this on the cabinets walls instead?
Thanks

try wool and see please thanks you

Hi, i found a good alternative to dynamat, called noico sound deadening, its a good price for the diy sound system maker, i wonder if anyone has lined a speaker box with that?

i wonder whether it would be worth it? I have PA speakers, amd id be interested to see if the speakers are more econimical sound wise wkth that stuff on the inside?

And double the panels of the pressed board Sawdust stuff that is 1 1/2 inch thick of the denses panels you could have the same thickness plywood will be much flimsier and transfer the loss of energy in the sound waves instead of  HITTING LIKE  THEY SAY ITS SUPPOSED TO NOT VIBRATE EVERY THING AROUND  IT SOUND DISTORTED AND NOT HIT YA WITH THE NEW RYTHUM OF YOUR HEART WITH CLEAR HITTING BASS THAT YOU CAN'T GET WITH PLYWOOD AND STUFFING YOUR BOXES WITH COTTON AND FOAM AND TRY THE FINE SAND POWDER JUST COAT T COMPLETE BOTTOM OF THE BOX ABOUT A EIGHTH OF A INCH I WOULD NOT SUGGEST TO USE IT IN PORTED BOXES THAT HAVE NO PANELS SO THE AIR DOESN'T JUST BLOW OUT WITH NO PRESSER SO WEN SECTIONED THE AIR KEEPS PRESSURE WHILE STILL MOVING AIR TROUGH THE PORT

I am wondering if the polyfill would block the aeroport vent.any thoughts on that

What are your opinion in stuffing a car audio subwoofer box (sealed or ported)?  Let's say fiber glass because it seems to be the best of these 3. Would you consider getting to hot in there? Subwoofer produce heat.
I am not referring to crank SPL but on regular listening?

And if you tried Sorbothane instead of rubber?
Or sheet lead, glued to the facing (not mounted) side of Sorbothane?

Or the same volume of Rockwool?

Is there a coating that can be applied to the interior of the cabinet that could reduce cabinet resonance?

Can a short signal sweep reveal any resonance frequency in the box. Intuitively I'd say it more likely to take a sustained signal in order to start some materials to resonate. 
I had a pair of speakers that started to resonate at 260 Hz under certain circumstances when played at or above a certain spl.
Would it be beneficial to play  the signal sweep way slower in order to get slow starting resonance going?

I put polyfill in my ported box because it was a tad bit smaller than the recommendation come to find out it took the port noise away lowered the frequency and got a smoother response now if your vented enclosure is built to manufacture specs I don't recommend using polyfill?

Also a lot of internal bracing eats away the ever precious cubic capacity.

Why not Kilmat that's you in cars to stop metal panels from vibrating? I have not seen this method used once.

Hi guys! What is CLD, please?

To bad you never had any product like GR Reserch NoRez kicking around. It would have been nice to see put up against the others. I had great results using it to damp the cabinet if my CerwinVega speakers along with some bracing. It really helped to tighten up the bass.

Have you ever tried No-Res (brand) on any of your speaker boxes?

should have measured the impedance of the driver

Your understanding is similar to mine - the point of lining cabinets with some sort of fibrous material is to increase the effective volume of the enclosure. I have a couple of vintage Acoustic 807 3-way cabinets that seem to be their take on the Altec-Lansing "Voice Of The Theater" speaker systems except what they did was stick two 12" drivers one over the other in a bass horn configuration - except what they did was to close off the top 12" and give the bottom 12" a vent all the way across the bottom. I am in the process of reworking these cabs (mostly replacing the crossover and adding L-pads for the piezo tweeters and the mid horn) and I'm wondering what the effect would be of lining the top 12"'s enclosure with polyfill (the way I do it is to separate the polyfill into consistently sized tufts and hot-glue each tuft to the walls) and leaving the bottom 12"'s vented enclosure alone.

The video was primarily a comparison for stuffing material, and I just threw in those other things to give a little perspective.

Can we use cotton?

Have you considered spray foam

Hey man.  Can you tell me which accelerometer that is so I can get one please?

So with all that thumping does the fibreglass get airborne and stick to the speaker and over a small amount of time cause an unexpected effect ?   I don’t know but I’m not doing that being a first time builder of my own box.   Seems like common sense to me but I’m only just starting my YouTube study on this. I spent my money on a JL audio 10 w3 and I want to treat it nicely for along time.

Why not, as they say, "think outside the box" (heh, heh), and experiment with concrete slabs, ceramic tile, cement-board, thick cork, sand/epoxy slabs, etc.?

Why compare by weight and not by volume?  Maybe I missed your explanation....

A Mic is for measuring the resonance from the case influencing the flatness of the curve of the speaker. You have to measure the speaker when you test stuffing. The accelerometer is used to test dampening material like bitumen.

You will se much higher difference with stuffing in mic measurement and much higher difference's with the accelerometer when testing dampening materials. You mixed up the Methodes and the measurements. 

That's why all your measurements are equal. Because the stuffing does nothing to the wood and the accelerometer because that's not what I meant to do.😅

Please watch this video! Explains it!
https://youtu.be/DtQkMpHsMro?si=pqQksFQRXjSi0t8J

Definitely not ultimate!

try it with dinitrol

Worth offsetting the bracing from the mid-point to a non multiple of the cabinet dimensions?

eg using Phi, not ½ or ⅓rds etc

so the resonsnce of the new area is not a multiple of the other part of the pannel (or another pannel in the cab.

??

900 Hz resonance with the speed in air of about 343,2 m/s results in a wavelength of 0.381m. divided by two is about 19cm. is this the inner distance between your top and bottom panel? because i think you have a standing wave there. to break that up you would need a panel with 4 big holes in between but not exactly in the middle because that would result in two synchronous standing waves at about 1800Hz.
you would need to split up the 19cm distance in an odd ratio that the resulting two compartments have a different height. usually the "golden ratio" is a good idea. then the two new standing waves are not feeding a combined resonance.
does this "sound" reasonable?

Finely whats better ?? Please reply
I have 1500w pa single top. Using outdoor
I want clear sound please advice thanks

What would be the result in a vented box where the sound energy was allowed to escape? If you secured opposite sides with a physically fixed 1 inch dowel at various places to stop vibrations.

with a remark: I don't believe this sweep test is relevant as the moment you record the next upper frequency you don't  know if the panel is free by resonances produced by the previous low frequency (meant the previous resonance in panel is complete damped). It is preferable then, if still insist on a sweep test, to sweep from high freq to low freq as the previous freq will be damped more fast in case of. As comparison I.ll do for same tested material a double sweep: from low to high and from high to low to confirm, or not, identical results. Otherwise the measurement will be derated by still stored energy in the panel.

Very interesting test. However, the stuffing in a speaker isn't for deadening the cabinet panel resonance. That's done with using the right cabinet materials and bracing. The fill has two functions. One is to deaden the reflected sound that would come back through the cone. Which is usually thin paper or plastic. Sometimes metal etc. The second is to slow the sound waves to make the cabinet seem larger than it is which means that you're lowering the cabinet resonance. 
A good quality MDF board is good for home stereo. That should keep your cabinet resonance down.

Instead of using rubber sheets (or as well as) I would have preferred you to use an actual sound absorbing product that is engineered to absord sound energy within the material by turning it into heat. Something like Noico or Dodomat. In the 'car world' these are known to absorb much more noise than cheaper materials like rubber or even shed felt (yes, people really do)!

Why not just use sound damping material inside the box ?

Stovetop Stuffing works best.

Hello. What accelerometer did you use and how did you connect it to your computer and be measurable in REW?

HOw does NO RES stand compared to these No RES is made by GR Research

Damping is damping. It will damp everything inside the box - the airspace and the panels. This is the way that I chose to measure how effective the damping is, by measuring the panel.
Could be you are getting confused by the other testing I did at the end with direct panel damping to put the results into perspective. I should have been a bit more explicit in explaining my procedure, but it's very difficult to anticipate what needs to be emphasized.

 @IBuildIt  well I think you may not quite understand why companies put dampening materials in their speakers. There are 2 reasons why companies use MDF. Its low in resonance and also fairly stiff. Pro speaker companies usually use Baltic birch because of their stiffness and because of the multiple layers do the same as your last test with 2 boards sandwiched together. You can feel the side of the cabinet and a good cabinet won't vibrate much. After that it's the specific placement and material that decides the internal damping that they want. Most high quality speakers will have a thin, maybe inch or 2 of sound deadening layer attached to the cabinet sides. If you are going to "fill" the cabinet, it's to stop reflections and mechanically make the cab larger. Your test for sound dampening testing doesn't really give you a good idea on what to use as sound dampening other than it will help stop a poor cabinet material from resonating. As an example, 2 sandwiched boards gave you better results. Now ask yourself how much it stopped that from coming back out that piece of paper called a cone speaker. The speaker cone isn't made of 1/2 inch wood.

 @IBuildIt  I'm sorry but I should have mentioned horn speakers and transmission line speakers. On horns, you shouldn't use any fill. In transmission lines you will need a lot of fill. It depends on the type of speaker you're building.

Dynamat is butyl rubber and foam.

How about sound deadner like fatmat or similar

Silicone is not the best choice. There are products made specifically for this purpose. Green Glue sound deadening compound is one I’m familiar with. You apply it with a caulking gun between layers.

silicone doesnt work as a CLD. you need viscoelastic polymer

You wrote what happened when the camera went off. OK good communication. BUT. What did you say? its not reported. OK good comunication

What's with all this artificial stuff? I only use real wool for damping material directly behind the drivers with a half inch foam dampening material on side walls of speaker cabinet. I do like how you experimented with different panels and thicknesses and most of your video is enlightening. It all starts with the process of elimination. Carry-on! :>)

Marine plywood is better than stiffer wood stack

Bed liner

I would not suggest the fiberglass if your enclosure is in the room with you. Unless you like breathing fiberglass particles.

your reading acoustic vibration in the box not changes in acoustic sound waves. are you just trying to damppen the panels or tricking sub in to thinking it in a little larger box?? back when I had a RTA I did a test with poly fill with and without and there was a noticeable difference of 7Hz lower and 1db higher average subs was rockford he2 12's 1.75cf each

I would never use fiberglass for anything unless it has resin in it. That garbage get in yhe air and into eyes, sinuses everywhere. Im thinking of using cork.

Trust me I agree with the idea that fiberglass or rock wool would be better than poly fill, BUT and that’s a big but, the glass fibers in both the rock wool and fiberglass is just too damn itchy and dangerous to have just blowing EVERYWHERE from the vent/port. Just thinking of it go me itchy over here, I believe the rule of thumb is 1lb (16oz) per 1cubic foot so 58g (2oz) is no where near the recommended amount of poly fill to even notice any difference.

Thanks for making this video. I enjoyed the last one with the different panels. Perhaps It's already been said, the purpose of stuffing inside of a box has nothing to do with taming panel resonances. The purpose of stuffing inside the box is to change the environment that the base and mid-range drivers are operating in. Also, why are you putting it in the cavity without the driver? It goes in the cavity with the driver.

Don't put bracing exactly in the middle, split the chamber 60/40

Do the same test with a mic in front of the speaker to see if there is a change in output . There will be little to no difference in pannel vibration.  Not the best test .

I'd like to know how fluffed up cotton wool works. As a plant product it is green, sustainable, and ultimately biodegradable. Also it is more widely available than long haired wool.

Try throwing away the box and do the test again.

How can they use fiberglass with vented enclosures , just imagine all the tiny glass particles you are breathing . 😥🖐🔊😡

This is all wrong. The whole idea of stuffing a box was not the dampening effects, it's the ability to cancel waves and make the box appear "bigger" if I am thinking correctly. In other words, bigger box, bigger bass. I don't have the math in front of me, but I've seen this test done here: https://youtu.be/kc4AvfomdIQ?t=612

if the box is ported NEVER use fiberglass, you will be breathing in the particles when you use the speaker

This does nothing to test the intended purpose of polyfill. It's not meant to reduce panel vibration.

I agree.  Shore rating matters here if the goal is truly an effective CLD construction.  I would try something like WEICON Flex 310 M between some MDF.

Of course if it’s a seal enclosure then I would definitely go with rock wool panels agains the face panels then stuff loose fiberglass inside the chamber.

Stuffing changes the environment inside the box by damping the airspace and the panels. To measure how effectively it does that, I measured the panel vibrations. Stuffing is damping material - it's as simple as that.

 @IBuildIt  you are correct in calling it a dampener. It's job is to dampen or slowdown the back wave of the woofer or midrange driver and therefore change it's performance without altering the size of the enclosure. It is not intended to dampen vibration of the enclosure itself. That is the job of enclosure construction and materials.

Which is the 60? Is it the sub? Or the portion of port?

Try it. But don't be tricked into thinking it's "greener" because it grows on a plant. 
There's still a lot of processing (that most environmental-patients) would not see as "green" that goes into taking it from raw to refined, not to mention what it takes to grow it and harvest it.
We aren't running out of sand and rock anytime soon, so fiberglass and rockwool are every bit as sustainable as cotton. It may actually use less energy to produce, since so much of it is made at the same time in plants built to efficiently do that.

You don't want to use fibreglass or rockwool because fibres break into dangerous small particles .
Use Dacron or actual wool. Fill the entire space. The board you are using is too thin.

I see you are only using 70ish volts dc per channel ! Why are you shorting your own amp design ? Why not use 120 volts dc per channel for Best Result ? 😊 Nice Craftsmenship 😊

Couldn't help but think you should place the accelerometer on a panel that you were not removing and replacing, at least for the stuffing tests.

Ive never used fiberglass..because i imagined glass fibers in my VC ..no thanks

Great info. Have you tried the same tests with a box completely made of MDF instead of ply?
Cheers

Do NOT use fiberglass or rock wool with speakers with a vented pole piece. You will destroy your speakers. Loose glass and rock particles will find its way into the voice coil gap and create enough friction to set them on fire.

Rubber generally acts like a spring. Be nice if someone tried Dynamat or Second Skin, they are made to reduce panel vibrations.

Polyfill is really snake oil just another car audio gimmick. However if you tuned a box higher than you planned adding polyfill will lower the tuning frequency. Not because it’s some amazing technology but because your decreasing air space.

ceramic fiber/wool is best but you didnt test. most dont use coz its the most expensive

I'd be interested to see how foam and medium density foam did.

Rubber moves too much, you need to use the stuff that looks like rubber but is actually a damping product. Or the specific epoxy made for damping.

Listen plywood is not a good speaker would believe it or not the pressed wood that wonderboard pressed Sawdust crap  get a three-quarter inch thick sheet its denser than the plywood and fiberglass and the less give in the box the harder the  air gets moving  it gets forced to change directions faster with less force lost ur trying to move  air not vibrate and move the  sides and back panels same with the stuffing the sand or powder  dose what they think cotton and fiberglass  foam all actually make the speaker heat up faster so RMS guarantee TO LOWER also  chamber your  boxes and seal them so air can't transfer  also  less likely to blow a speaker the difference is like a JL Audio compared to Jensen also cotton or polyester is not the best substance to use and get better sound it's actually a fine powder or sand not sure the name only on one episode of this car show one time and the reason why is speakers need a certain amount of air space to function that's what most speaker boxes are built for by putting cotton or polyester in the Box to take away the cubic feet 4 in out of the airspace the powder or sand only gets filled at the bottom of the speaker box when you go to install the speaker for the last time the only takes up small amount in the Box itself but when the sound waves start pushing the air that the dusting powder whatever crap starts kicking with the air and makes the air denser will not taking up the airspace in the box like the cotton or foam or polyester would bet money on it it was crazy when the guy showed the difference on TV

I feel you are looking at the wrong thing for what you are trying to do. Dampening has nothing to do with panel resonances, it has to do witih SPEAKER resonances inside the cabinet. Your tests of adding material to the top were more inline but I feel that you should test different kinds of bracing and combinations thereof.

Speakers are an air pump ‘I’m sure fiberglass does wonders for your lungs ,never understood why speaker companies would blow glass fibers in peoples faces?

You don't want to used fiber glass insulation you will be breathing all fiber glass insulation blow through the port's ahhhhhh unless it's seal boxes ahhhhhh 🙊🙈🙉🤔🤥💰🔥🕳️🕳️🕳️🕳️🕳️

Do you think it would make a difference at all if you use fewer screws? I’m absolutely no expert but I was just curious I know she has a lot of screws to hold the top one and I was wondering if maybe the vibration from the side was transferring up through those screws

bitumen gutter goo probably better than silicone which is quite bouncy?

It seems to me, you are testing the wrong thing with regards to stuffing the box.

Stuffing the box, as you found out, does almost nothing to diminish panel resonance. But that's not why one stuffs a box. Stuffing the box slows down the wave coming off the woofer, thus 'fooling' the woofer into thinking it's in a larger back.

This is completely separate from trying to eliminate panel resonances.

And your test with rubber sheets could have failed due to lack of an mechanical impedance match. If one does not have a close match, there is no way for the vibration from the panel to transfer to the damping material.

I followed your procedure but i think you have it wrong
One thing is the cavity resonance that can be tamed with the 1st 3 materials you tested
And the cabinet resonance that is what you trying to tame
For the box ( not the cavity ) there are different approaches
The simples one is to paint the interior with bitumen paint for instance.
Or a double panel cabinet with sand in between as another option. 
I think you hqve the wrong aproach with the fibers for the purpose of the video. 
Best regards.
David

and what about the best test of all...just play some music and listen .....im willing to bet the vast majority of people couldnt tell the difference between any of these damping methods when actually listening, even though theyd like to think they could and will tell you they can until the cows come home..they cant

I'm curious to hear how much of a difference you think that would make? 
A problem that I run into all the time when showing stuff like this is how people often pick out insignificant factors and boost them up to game-changing events.

 @IBuildIt  You've got an instrument measuring relatively small variations on a surface that is being removed and replaced. Can you guarantee it sits exactly the same, identically torqued using wood screws (relating to filler tests only)?   
What would the harm be in filling through an aperture in a surface that is not under test?  It's a rational observation regarding experimental methodology. 
If you say it absolutely cannot make a difference, then there's your position.   "Boosting to a game changing event?" Of course not.  Sensitive much?

See a previous video he did, might be last week.

 @EdwardT9  Thanks I will ;-)

I did that about 2 weeks ago. Kilmat on the inside of my tower speakers. I don't have measuring equipment, but I did one speaker and left the other as it was. To the touch the vibration in the treated speaker was less and stopped much quicker than the untreated. So I went ahead and did the other speaker. I do know it didn't hurt the sound in any way and to me sounds slightly better. Bass was tighter/  more defined. I would also love to see a measurement of this.

 @johnloupis2347  Nice! Makes sense to me but measurements would be nice.

I used 2” foam padding inside a ported box. Stapled it to walls.

Lost out on higher notes but gained down low on lower hz music.

I went from being able to only down to 33hz.

After I added the foam padding to the walls…I can play down to 28hz now.

Panels are normally solidly glued, so more screws get it closer to that.

i have used and think that something like "Silent Coat Multilayer Extra" is some of the best option. just look at the weight and if you have tried it on metal is quite the effekt, less on wood but its also on the inside so the pressure wavre have to go thru it before it goes to the wood.

Add fiberglass and ONLY fiberglass.  Idiots use polyfill and don't seem to understand thermodynamics - the glass fibers pull heat away from the voice coil and act like a heatsink.

Just a word to the wise. Never use fiberglass! The glass fibers will ruin anything moving in your speakers. You'll be buying reconing kits in no time at all and if they have a built-in amp such as a powered subwoofer the fibers will destroy the circuit boards as well.

Why are you measuring the resonance of panels?  The stuffing is not supposed to be used for the purpose of dampening panels. It's for reducing resonance within the cabinet to reduce it's interference in the form of smearing on the soundwave produced by the driver.

I don't get the point of this test. Measuring the impact on mechanical vibrations from an acoustical absorber makes very little sense. I'd be measuring the impedance amplitude and phase and the acoustic amplitude and phase response of the output from the driver to compare the properties of acoustic damping materials.

I prefer stove top stuffing

Lot of rubbish talking make it simple and fast.

You very wrong 
Stop using fiberglass , is gone to destroy your speakers , is gonna go inside your spider  and place around your voice coil 😢😢😢

With respect, I don't understand why you are using stuffing to damp panel resonances, that isn't what it is used for, generally. Bracing is the solution in regards to this problem. Divide the panels up has you have with this box but add more and make the resulting panels smaller and with a higher resonant frequency outside of your passband. If you dado 18x25mm birch ply strips in to a cabinet wall this will be very effective. Internal ribs.

Aren't you missing the point of stuffing an enclosure? Stuffing the enclosure makes the box appear larger, transferring acoustic energy to heat, right? This is a bad way to dampen panel resonance.

Your test is faulty.. What you need is calibrated measurement microphone.. Piezzo wont measure properly because driver itself is vibrating on wood.. You can test this by putting rubber sealer(used for doors) betwen speaker and hole.. Only you measure this way is resonance of wood itself that you stick it to, not the whole box..

You fail to say what the goal is. Also, we are building cabinets, not speakers as you said early on in your video.

Yea. That's what i thought.

Sounds interesting - post a link back here when you have the video done and I'll check it out.

Have you ever heard of a "Zobel Network"???🤔

There are just two reasons to stuff a speaker box:
The first is to increase the apparent volume. 
The second is for damping. 
There aren't very many ways to directly measure how effective the material is at doing that, but one is to measure how much a panel moves. If the stuffing is good for damping, that will show up in the panel.
I explained this in the video.

 @IBuildIt  I can think of a handful of other reasons why you would put damping inside a speaker (reflections, quasi-aperidoic alignments etc). It doesn't increase the apparent volume, this is a misinterpretation of it's effect - Q of a sealed box decreases with stuffing/overstuffing.

I understand you said this in the video but why not measure the effect of the stuffing with actualy near field driver measurements? You are using a solution for another problem(s) for this one. CLD is more appropriate but as I mentioned before, internal ribs create sub panels with a higher resonant frequency outside of the pass band.

Here is a really good paper on bass reflex stuffing, hope you find it interesting: https://drive.google.com/file/d/16j9rOXLL6uPSykyZ1OI9yk0QjQ-fZCXb/view?fbclid=IwAR3bduPGdCxVh_Ged8wRfEbU6vSqvdx7ulZulEBEqv6LYz48JlE3jG-0Je8

you are only seeing a limited view here, please read about speaker design some more before commenting.

You are free to do your own tests and share the results. This is YouTube, after all, not network TV.

 @IBuildIt  just a little positive criticue of how you can make it better for your future test.. Great video by the way

