Outstanding.  Very thorough presentation in a short period of time.

I enjoyed watching. Great, instructive content !

Hi there, Lewis, great tutorials head's up!!!

Wow, VERY nice tutorial. Thanks!

great video, and thanks for the schematic :)

great explain thank you Mr LEWIS

man I was stumped in my project until I came accros your video! thank you for being smart sir and for your videos! I appreciate them

Nice practical theory great teaching good work

Thanks a lot! Been looking for this.

Dear Mr Lewis,
Thank you for such a wonderful lesson. I managed to finish my masters project with the help of this knowledge..!! Thank you again.

very good presentation thank you

thanks dear Sir, you rescued me

thanks for your time dedicated

Good stuff.

Thanks master

Thanks appreciated and subscribed

thank you very much

Awesome!

It would be interesting to see some linear opperating mode optocoupler circuits. I believe hotchassis TVs used to use optocouplers for AV input isolation, and switch mode supplies using optocouplers for feedback of output voltage levels to the primary side controller. It would be interesting to see the schematics of such circuits.

thanks for the info sir

That's what I've been looking for.Many thanks🙂

You are why I put this information here. Good luck.

You are great man

Excellent, thank you.  I will definitely be checking out your other videos.

Here is how to use photovoltaic optocouplers:
High Voltage IGBT H-Bridge Using Photovoltaic Optocouplers
https://youtu.be/azJo4h-ei6I
webpage: https://www.bristolwatch.com/ele4/index.htm

Exploring Photovoltaic Optocouplers used as MOSFET Drivers
https://youtu.be/hkSW8WQ4CcY

Looking forward to see how to pwm an ac load! Most ssr's cant handle pwm with out over loading, and the ones that can are really expensive.  Any suggestions  for pwming a 120 volt light source. Thanks for the great videos. 

what type of transistor is most efficient? as far as power consumed or lost, is a MOSFET more efficient than like a Darlington. of BJT or IGBT? I'm asking because I'm looking for the best switch to use in pwm battery powered apps. for longer run time. thanks for great videos.

very informative episode, I wonder what is the maximum frequency tha optocoupler can be oprated,  cause I was thinking to use it on a high voltage switching power supply control around 200 KHz

5v to 24 v optocoupler circuit diagram.   Using encoder output 5v to PLC 24 v converter

Ich teste das

can i use this opto to take pwm and control the firing angle of the triac

Thank you so much for providing this lesson. I tried getting into Arduino years ago, but didn't have an understanding of how even transistors worked, or how they were special. How that figured into CPU design and other applications. Now I'm slowly building on that knowledge so I know how the chips and boards work, aside from the actual ATMega328 and the way it is programmed.

New related video OptoCoupler Interfacing H-Bridge Circuits 
https://youtu.be/Xjr7dFh3lYY

Thanks 
I like the circuit in 2:16 and I guess I will be using it to protect it in general and not just for relays. What do you think?

guess I'm doing something wrong, trying to cycle a pair PNY17-1 with a 555, and I can not get any voltage through the couplers. tried a few different ones. 
Great video though.

Do you have any more detail on the protection circuit or sources to check out?  Theory of operation, how to pick values and components?  I'm looking to build a circuit to  accept a 30-300V  variable HZ AC (two legs of a three phase alternator) input to a 5V square wave. I'm thinking build around a H11L1 and my best idea before that was to try a capactive coupling against the positive output of the rectifier.

Ja ,etwas in Richtung Perfekttransistor ist egal Tip npn oder PNP ,OK auf jeden Fall richtig

Hello Lewis, first of all, I would like to thank you for those awesome videos. I am new to electronics and whatever I've learned so far, thats thanks to you. But I was wondering one point. The max  collector current is, lets say 100 or 50 mA of the optocoupler, in the schematic  https://youtu.be/408qlS2z6ys?t=6m44s, isn't a current limiting resistor required?

Beautiful.  Its all about to isolate the load that is driven by the arduino command.  But what input isolation. How to ise it opposite?

you have a lot of great tutorials Lewis

👍👍👍👍👍!

I highly recommend investing in a better mic for your voice over.  :)

Thanks.

Arduino Uno 👍

Schön jemanden zu treffen der gute Ideen hat

Thank you

@Devon Sam Instablaster ;)

@Dustin Demetrius it did the trick and I finally got access to my account again. I am so happy!
Thanks so much, you really help me out :D

@Devon Sam happy to help :D

Solar Charge controller

I have minus 130volts pulsing that needs to turn on P channel MOSFET with load on ground side ,through optocoupler 4N25. Can I use diode to reduce the negative volts down, and then use step down voltage divider  LEVEL SHIFTING CIRCUIT to change polarity to positive low volts to input of optocoupler  IC ? Can the input negative volts go to the diode cathode of opto?

New see: http://www.bristolwatch.com/ele3/ele6.htm Optocouplers for TTL-CMOS Logic Level Shifting

Great video! How did you size the 220ohm resistor on the input side of the 5vdc circuits?

Mal sehen was wir haben

So why noone on the internet have never built dc dc buck 100v 100A??
Maximum I ever seen is buck 55v 22A

What is the function of the 1k resistor between the emitter  of the 4n25  and the base of the  TIP120 ?

Can this be used in the opposite direction.  That is to say, I would like to use a 24v proximity switch, through an optocoupler to signal a pin on the arduino @5v (or take the 5v signal to ground)

Nice video. So Lewis, the only circuit here that will do PWM is the "Basic NPN transistor solid state DC relay"? I want to isolate a PIR sensor and an Arduino from a 9g relay because the relay seems to be affecting the sensor. Can I still run a wire from an IO pin on the Arduino to the servo so that I can control it?

Very informative. Thanks for sharing!

I have a problem with opto isolator in my circuit it is still respond to command but only give weak current output around 2ma. I connect the output to drive 12v relay. Why is like that?

You get that proto-board from dealextreme?
I bough some, but hadn't had time to test those out, are they any good?

Silly, did not even mention CTR once!!!!!!!!!!

Why do we need the additional transistor / mosfet? Why isn't the octocoupler enough to open/close the bulb to source circuit?

Is the output resistor connected to the 4N25 just to ensure that the maximum current will not exceed 150mA?

how to latch circuit pls with OCP

Isn't there a different current limiter for the input instead of a crowbar circuit without the 2W resistor?

so is the main purpose of the optocoupler to provide isolation ?

good morning mr lewis
whats the difference between a Pnp transistor like tip120 and the N channel mosfet ... and how can we assure that Vcc doesnt not exceeds vgs
thx in advance

######!!Don't I need 2 bipolar transistors to shut off the P channel? (no mechanical switch to disconnect ground) I need optocoupler + 2nd transistor to shut off P channel as used as HIGH SIDE SWITCHING.???????

Yes

Limits base current of TIP120.

+Christopher Pearsall Should work.

For efficiency can I use a MOSFET instead, over on the right hand side of the diagram?

Not sure what you mean. Be more specific.

I built it. I put together 2 strip boards available anywhere glued to a scrap fiber glass base.

Opto-couplers are usually limited to 100mA.

Should not exceed 20 mA. Are you referring to the one on the opto-coupler LED?

Yeah. I wanted to write 15mA (~16.4mA), sorry. In a practical project, can I consider the CTR specified on the datasheet? Or does it may have a large variation?

What are you asking?

Are you asking for LASCR OCP ? If yes, then you can use it for latching circuit.

You can use any current limiter.

Yes. It is used also for interfacing.

They are very different devices one current operated while MOSFETs are voltage operated. See this page on MOSFETs:
http://www.bristolwatch.com/ele2/mosfet_relay.htm

thx a lot for your help

No. The 10K resistor will charge the gate back to +Vcc. It will switch on with a difference in voltage on the gate source.

oYEEAAA send my SEMIconductor SIMULATER_eagle Autoroute_ ?? what a GUESS?? isn`t it??

Can optocouplers be used for high power rating?? 3KVA????

10:58  What is the use of 10k ohm resistor between the gate and anode 1 terminal of triac?

what are the part numbers of Mosfet?

what is better optocoupler or mosfet ?

Could this be used to convert 24VAC to logic level signals?

Sir instead of tip120
Can I use tip 127

One can't use PWM with an AC circuit. You have to sync to the AC waveform then switch on an SCR or triac between half cycles. I'll have that coming up.

Ich sage nur wellenvormen und ich weiß was ich da mache,es ist kein Optokoppler

Good presentation thank you

thank you sir

No. They are low power devices. They can control higher power circuits with say IGBTs, etc.

Forms a voltage drop across MT1 and gate.

 @LewisLoflin  Thanks, I have the same project in school that uses BT136 triac. (AC  LIGHT DIMMER)

See this webpage: https://www.bristolwatch.com/ele/h_bridge.htm

Not the same thing. An optocoupler is low voltage low power. A MOSFET has high voltage and current rating in most cases.

thanks. but we can have low power mosfets too ?

No this is for DC. You would have to rectify/filter the AC (1.41 X VAC) and use a larger dropping resistor.

 @LewisLoflin  Thank you for your prompt reply. In addition to solving my current project's needs, I'm very interested in learning how to understand and do this correctly. Do you know of any resources that I might look to to better understand how to properly design a circuit that will convert 24VAC to 3.3VDC?

Should work.

 @LewisLoflin  thanks sir it worked perfectly 👍

Thank you for your truly awesome and explanatory videos! Can I ask what if an IGBT is used instead of an SCR? Would this work in combination with an opto coupler controlled by Arduino/555 which would be sending the PWM signals?

No if it's DC and if AC has to phase synced.

How to control speed of dc motor which is operate from 24v 10amp dc supply

 @12htech70  Make sure the drive transistor is about 15 amps.

Elektronik ist immer in wellenvormen so das ganze Leben

Impulse

Tr1 und 2 tr3 naja

