This guy is the real MVP
12:48 explains so much.

he is one of the best reviewers that talks good enough and clearly!

that is just another video of yours that fits my needs just perfectly, its great that there are still some very experienced enthusiasts of this hobby who remember about amatures and they explain even advanced matters in very simple and accessible way. well done

Wow this is so comprehensive, thanks!

Very helpful Lee, you bring it all together in a very comprehensive way. No one on YouTube is as good as you at this regards RC hobby. I’ve learnt heaps from your videos. Thank you very much!!

Thanks for the prompt reply and info ,that was very helpful,Cheers

Thanks so much for the video. Great overview. It helped my understanding of fflight controllers greatly

Great summary, thanks for sharing!

You're the simplest colloquial bible of fpv I've come across! Thank you for amazingly valuable information!

Thanks mate, I have just learnt more in 10 minuets, I now have a starting point,  GREAT STUFF!!!

Excellent Video! Thank you for this, it is very clear!

Hi Lee, 
It's always a pleasure to view your videos.

Another great video. Thanks for all your work on this.

Great video, I learnt a lot

Great video. Exactly the information I was after. Thanks!

❤❤thank you so much for all this great information!!! It really helped me!

Thank you for this video. I understand now

Thank you so much for this video!

I am in agreeance with most peoples comments on here as i am not a new builder  but have drifted away and now want to come back but even in 18 months things have changed a lot in my estimation and this video even for myself is a learning curve not to be missed, it took me three days to figure out how to reverse my motors so they spin outwards rather than inwards and if all your esc wires are wired as i thought the same why will it not take off, obviously i have sussed it but not without the input of Painless360 and JB and other special people who want other people to learn by their videos so here is a massive thankyou to you 360 for a great video channel here on YT ..

thank you , that was a clear explanation

Awesome video my friend, thank you for the share!

Excellent as usual.  Provides a great framework to think within.  Thank you.

thank you so much

Very useful info. Many thanks.

Amazing video! thank you so much.

As a newbie, I got a lot of valuable info.  Everyone should consider being a Patreon.  Lee is not just doing, "hey dudes" kind of reviews.  These are classroom  instructional videos that deserve to be supported.

Excellent tutorial thankyou Lee 👍👍👍

Awesome video, this really helped

Very helpful thank you!

Great intro Lee...

Thx - already knew most of it but not all of the elements you covered so thank you for this handy video for newbies ;-)

Although I made couple of drone projects, it is always a good thing thing to summarize. Brilliant!

Thank you so much for this video

Excellent, thanks !

That's fantastic. You are a real asset. Can't tell you how much I have struggled trying to get an understanding of this hobby. At 62 need these videos to get me up to speed.

Isolation and H7 back ordered together; found you and it is tolerable. thanks.

Interesting how close these ‘abilities’ come close to those required in a missile!

Great explanation Lee, sincere thanks for the Huge time and effort 👍

Thanks a lot for this review and info. I look forward to seeing your other videos

Great info.

By the way, I have a really ambitious idea. Built the smallest and autonomous FPV drone. I don't have experience with drones, it's a new world that excites me.

very informative

Good summary

I made my first drone from your first beginner building video and have friends that want to start. But what I know has got a bit dated, so this new video is really good.

Excellent excellent thank you...

I’m thinking about drones as a hobby. These videos are giving me the information I’ll need to know.

Thanks for another excellent introduction to Flight Controllers that has really helped me congeal the concepts and the names that are important to make these little computers work! Keep up this ground breaking work for us newbies! - Jim

Thanks for you reply

excellent!

Thank you

anyone again in 2025

Thanks for the explanation of the difference between INAV and Ardupilot. Want to start building semi-autonomous multirotors and fixed wings, but I use CRSF so it looks like I’m going w INAV

Thanks to you I've learned a lot by watching your videos ,I'm planning to buy an RC helicopter  so 
That's why watching videos in YouTube and try to understand how  Rc works 😊, I guess hahah ,thanks  a lot ... your awesome..

Спасибо большое

Thanks

Your videos are the best! I am trying to convert my zero turn mower to RC, then ultimately to autonomous. Everyone I talk to about it, laughs at me but it doesn’t get me down. I’m going to do this. Your videos help! Thanks.

Wow, what a perfect video! Thank you so much for taking the time to teach unknowns like me!

Great breakdown of this amazing RC component! Good stuff here.

Lee, very interesting approach in your video. By the way, is there any rx in the market which includes a flight controller and telemetry and that can be used with one of the protocols integrated in the TX16S radio?

Excellent presentation though I’m familiar with all the details but I’m not good at presentation.

I had a quadcopter that had a feature where it would stop and slowly land when it had low battery. It ran low on battery over an irrigation ditch...

There are three videos that cover a basics of power, control and fpv - https://youtu.be/xPDc6r6nRTU

Wanted to find a cool hobby to get into. My uncle suggested RC planes.

Yaaah ,if you are a new learner lets start together

Best of luck! Please post videos when you've got it all working! :D

I’d love to see it. Subbing to ur channel

There’s a guy on yt got it running already, I’ll be doing the same in the future with ardurover

Brilliant,  been wanting to do that for years....so many possibilities.

Did you get it done

You are so welcome!

Great video! Question: could you suggest a combination controller/program to use with my ZOHD plane where I could experiment with pattern flight on my property? Thanks in advance! - Mark

Thank you for this and all your tutorials.  I've been following your AR Wing build videos and I've gathered most of the components I need except the bloody AR Wing itself.  I have ordered it from 3 different places and have had all 3 orders cancelled because they were suddenly on backorder.  Could you recommend another wing that's comparable to the AR Wing for FPV beginners?  I could go with something like a Mini Talon but I really want a wing.

This video was named perfect to describe me. I’m a 53 yr old rookie no rc background. Just a limited IT background. I feel like Jethro in Manhattan. ( Beverly hillbillies). I’m to testing and channel selection. Then asked myself if I was insane. Thanks.

Excellent video. I'm starting from scratch. I've purchased a Volentex Ranger 2000.
Id love to have DJI Google, pan tilt, and way points missions. I'm very technically minded but I can't seem to decide on what equipment I'll need.
Would really like to know what you'd recommend in regards to FC and transmitters for this project. 
Thank you 🇬🇧

Can you do review/tutorial on kakute f7 v2

Thanks for the video, I’m trying to get into FPV and this helps explain a lot...

WHY DO I DO THIS , I FIRST GET A PROBLEM THEN I WATCH YOUR VIDEOS WHY AM I LIKE THAT , no i understand better ho i could do my simple build up thanks for such a great video .

After years if pause from the hobby i just realized there are a lot of new stuff new protocol such as express LRS, my radio is still Taranis X9D+ and all my quads are still rocking F3 and naze32 i am still happy with them when i tried then last night. I'l probably build a new quad when time and money allows.

Brilliant Lee!
This is a great begineer platform that answers a lot of questions.

Are there any videos that speak to things such as CLI commands? Or, how to understand what you need to tell your FC, with an example such as iNav, what you want it to do, or how to do it? I've been finding that portion of iNav daunting to say the least. 

Again, you have some of the very best info available and your help and hard work are so much appreciated.

Best!

Been flying drones for years, but just got a deal on a Volantex Ranger EX I couldn't pass up! ($120)

I use Speedybee and HGLRC F7 flight controllers for my drones but have never built\bought a FC for a fixed-wing before. I plan to use the plane to capture cinematic video, not acrobatic\stunt flying.

What would you recommend for my first fixed-wing adventure? The price should be $300 or less. I've only used Betaflight up to now, but am open to whatever software you'd recommend.

Thanks for the awesome videos! You just earned a sub!

should be a great series of video`s

u r the best

I have the DJI racing goggles and the ocusync air system. what are  my option to use these to learn FPV planes? I am ordering the Volantex V757-6 V757

Hi thanks for this. If you’re not wanting to program things and literally just feed data back to your handset / radio, then do you still need a flight controller? I have a glider I’m building and a total novice but I do want to feed altitude and variometer data to the radio handset and ideally, at some point use FPV.

This video remind me.. KK flight controller naze32...

I have a lumenier lux mini fc and want to put a barometer on it but according to the manual the sda and scl pads are i2c, but need to be "pulled up".
I have no idea what that means so i contacted the company. They didn't know either and said they will have to get back to me on that.
Do you have a video that explains how to pull up a pad?

Can I connect a Bluetooth module on a T2 and R2 or does it have to be TX2 and RX2?

Hello, is there a flight controller which will work with an older Graupner 35 MHz please? My project is converting a large sailplane to become an ultra high endurance electric glider with solar cells but I would like to keep my mc-16/20 gear simply because I hate throwing things away. It would also be useful to have telemetry. As you may guess I am an old school aero modeller so any advice will be most welcome. Thank you! Regards Justin.

Thank you for this clear explanation.  I'm thinking of moving to fixed wing for long range.  Can you recommend a video from you that I should watch?  Thanks

Hello, I'm basically preparing this drone project for my  institution's science carnival. This is something I wanted to make as cheap as possible to show how a "Drone", as we know it, doesn't necessarily need to be the most sophisticated & stuffed with complex machinery (that's kind of the central idea behind it, as in that's the creative part to my prject you could say). So with that goal in mind, I took up this challenge of making a drone with nothing but ice-cream sticks (body frame), 4 DC motors (around 700 -1000 RPM), 4 propellers & a 7-9V battery. But, I have heard a lot about how it would be dangerous if I don't add an RC feature, given that the 700 RPM could possibly cut off a person's finger just that easily. For that, I need to know whether just a flight controller (without any power distributors & an RC controller that's specialized for drones) would work on that design? 
I really need the answer because my project presentation is in 1day's time. So I'd genuinely appreciate a helpful answer. Thank you.

Lots of content like this on the channel aimed at those getting into the hobby.. Best of luck

Check out the other RC basics videos and the Introduction to FPV playlist... Best of luck

Painless360  will do, appreciate it

The videos are designed to help avoid a lot of the common problems. But, as you spotted, that only works if you watch them first! :D Happy flying!

There can be a lot of snobbery in places like YouTube and the forums if you are not using the latest stuff. It can mean that you are missing out on improvements and extra features but...
The point of any hobby is to have fun. If you are then it's working for you.
Happy flying

Check out my iNav build series on the channel. I cover every step I use to get a inav powered model flying... Best of luck

Already is :D Check out the 'RC Basics' and 'Introduction to remote control' series on the channel. Happy flying!

Thanks for the comment.

Ah, those were the days. I'm guessing you missed the video from last weekend?

 @Painless360  yes my kids doesn't want me to watch anything... just playing with them.all the time...😂 thanks Lee for your efforts to make this hobby alive many greetings from Germany.

It depends on where you are with Fixed wing. A good place to start is here - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OaKqAng-BVE

I've just seen this. I hope that the presentation went OK.

Hi Lee, would you be able to do a video on a basic/cheap flight controller linked up to the dji hd fpv system for fixed wing ( not for control but just for the on screen display ) option for GPS receiver if wanted ? Would be nice to have a 3D printed mount for the flight controller board and air unit to keep the footprint small.

I have a really weird question for you.  I want to add a FC into another electronics project to make use of the Baro, Gyro and OSD out.  Can i use an FC as a passive component?   Or does the FC need to have a remote connected for it to work?   My video display will be hardwired to video out  of the OSD (no VTX needed)  because I only want to show altitude, horizon, compass etc. automatically on power up of my project.  Is this possible? Love the videos! and thanks for any advice you can provide!

Hi! Thanks for this video it defo really helped! I bought an APM 2.8 a couple weeks ago from ebay and to say, even after researching this huge topic over the course of a week, I was extremely disappointed to see that when I put arducopter onto the board my APM had been retired and couldn't use the latest software. Nevertheless, I have put this into my drone I have been building and last night I managed to get the motors to spin up and almost take off after two weeks of making this thing! I had two big problems;
1. The back two motors lifted first and almost tipped the drone over.
2. I got an error from prearm saying something about my thrust failsafe values.
For point 1 I think I'm going to try to calibrate my escs one by one to see if this fixes my problem and for point 2 I feel like if I set my controller (Flysky FX-i6X) failsafe to the lowest using lowest trim, and recalibrate using the highest trim this could provide enough separation for the message not to appear?


Do I sound like I'm on the right lines? Can I still get APM 2.8 to work properly? and finally, after forcing the drone to arm and after it almost got wrecked after lifting one side before the other the drone would not disarm and I had to crawl underneath to unplug the battery as the mission planner software kept saying my order to disarm was rejected by mav, what could be the problem here? and how could I possibly fix this?


Once again thank you for the video, it truly has helped my understanding and next time I'll make sure to buy the latest hardware!

Hi, can you show to us all those controllers that you are talking about, thank you.

I'm glad I saw this video. I have big problem with USB drivers and I think I ruined my TYRO 79 flight controller because of that and I hope you can help with usb drivers on a video or a link. Thanks.

Great video as always. I don't remember seeing anything on dji flight controllers. Any specific reason?

Great video and info.  I have designed a heavy lift drone and am at the point where I need to purchase a radio system and autopilot system, etc.. The system would need to be able to take off as a multicopter and then transition into forward flight.  I need help in choosing the correct systems and programing them.  Do you or can you pass me along to a person or company that Ican hire to help me with this?  Thank you in advance.  Steve

This was really helpful. I want to get into this hobby with the long term goal of messing around with custom VTOL ideas that I have, so I want to get into a system that allows me lots of customisation ideally on a code level. Multiwii on an Arduino seems the best environment I found, but everything I read about it is at least 10 years old and I worry that I find suitable hardware.
So is this arduflight what I am looking for?

lol it reminds me about airbus planes, they have fly by wire computer that makes the aircraft stable even when turning, without having the autopilot turned on, meanwhile Boeing doesn't have it, except the pilot turns on the autopilot, and they can't touch the yoke while flying with autopilot.

Hi, am just getting into quadcopters and found this video very informative, excellent video! With the lockdown, can you recommend which online shops is best for ordering and delivery of parts? Which one do you use most? Thanks!

Wonderful video.
I'm still looking for info on cameras tho.

Like some droned come with multiple cameras and i would like to make my own setup with 1 camera that has great optical zoom, 1 IR camera and perhaps something else as a third option.

Not sure if there's a flight controller or specific method to achieve this tho

would you be able to do a flight controller control loop code explanation in C C# or any other language?

How do i program a self guidance computer for a rc plane or drone plane?

Great channel! I'd like to pick your brain. I'm about to begin a build AR wing.  I'm planning on modifying and run an edf but for slow flight, long duration.  Gps, Autopilot, return to home, gyro, and head track fpv are on the list.  I have hull, motor, servos, and  3s 11.1v 5000ish battery.  Could I get your opinion on some compatible gear with the capabilities I described? I also haven't decided on a radio, goggles, or ground station yet so if you have the time I'd love your take on that as well.  I was going to make a tracker and helical antenna etc with a repeater, something ingenuitive and compact with cooling fans. Any advice would be well taken. Thanks again! Back to surfing your videos trying to learn

I wish I'd seen this a couple of weeks ago before the journey I've had with my SpeedyBee F405 Wing over the last couple of weeks 😢.  I probably watched all of your vids and Andrew Newton's, but missed this one.😢  An overview video like this would have been very useful.  I got there in the end though and was chuffed when I managed to activate loiter! 😊.  I gave your channel and Andrew Newton's a shout out on part 2 of my FPV journey video. Part 3 just online and I'm just one step away from flying the old Bixler FPV.
I wish Inav  had called the compass a 'compass' not a magnetometer. 😮. That caused me a bit of confusion after spending a couple of hours trying to disable it. 🙄.
My part 3 is here. https://youtu.be/H3BqZmsr7gc

Nice video! (As always) 
I got one question left.
Do i also need to mount them free from vibrations as strict as for a quad copter?

Great video.
I recently purchased an older used multicopter. It came with a multiwii board.
Can you explain why I don't want to use it? What would a f4 board do for my that the MW doesn't?
my usage is mostly cinematic flight.

I have a spare FC (F405AIO) from a Skystars STX225 quadcopter. Can I use it to build-up a fixed-wing instead? If yes - do I connect the servos to where the ESCs would normally be if it were a quad? Thanks for all your videos... Inspiring!

after seeing a few of your video which is always so informative,I thought what better man to ask a question that no one else has been able to answer me.Perhaps your knowledge is wider and can be of help to me.I live about 1200 meters from my flying club and to check if someone is flying at the club,I would like to buy a scanner for 2.4GHZ transmitter,that will display activity and radio type being use in the display sceen.Can you suggest what type of unit will do this and the said range it have.You help will be greatly appreciated.Thanks .

Hello and thank you for your channel! I'm preparing to add an FC and FPV (DJI HD) to a motor glider for autonomous flight and use INav. At the 20:20 mark in this video you briefly cautioned about something regarding DJI HD FPV with regard to iNav that I did not understand. Is there a particular playlist or video of yours that you can recommend to better understand using DJI HD FPV with iNav?

INav supports the DJI system. Check out my DJI goggle video all about it.. Best of luck

I'd still wire the FC in and then fly in manual mode.  Get the OSD and lots of additional benefits... best of luck

The APM is very old now and all of the steps covered in my APM series are still a useful watch. I cover how I get it all working and how to avoid the common mistakes. Best of luck

 @Painless360  Thank you for the fast reply! I managed to calibrate the escs, and fix the thrust value error for the failsafe. Now the thing just seems to want to tip over every time I hit the throttle! Ahhh this is such a fun pain in the neck 😂 I'll rewatch your series to just make sure I've got everything else right and hopefully figure out my new problem!

Already on the channel :D Check out the builds, how-to, tips and tricks and other videos that cover all of this in the next level of detail.

This is something that I've already made a video or two about. Please see this video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P4soR6QgOk0 - that should help you find those videos of mine and help you find the answers you need quickly

I tend to make videos for technology that is 'open' and where the manuals and details are not clear. For me it's about helping pilots get into the air. As those DJI flight control systems are 'closed' with specific firmware and backup and support from their DJI resellers then I've never felt the need to make the same kind of content for them. Happy flying!

Didn't I already answer this on another video?  No need to post twice... happy flying!

MultiWii is old 8 bit tech and not used any more. Most modern VTOL systems are using Ardupilot and Xplane setups.. https://ardupilot.org/plane/docs/quadplane-support.html

that's interesting. Do Airbus have a override option just in case?

Depends where you are in the world, all the ones I use here in the UK (3DXR, Unmannedtechshop and HobbyRC seem ok)..

 @Painless360  Am in the UK so the list you gave is helpful. Thanks!

Blimey! Sadly not. I do explain PID loops in one of my videos.. best of luck!

Ckeck out my videos on setting up missions... Happy flying

EDF isn't a good choice if slower and endurance/longer flights are what you want. See my video on it in the motor and prop series..

Following my build guides will usually get you to the end of the build safely, as long as you don't skip stuff... Happy flying

Ideally yes. Lots of flight controllers have some kind of vibration isolation... Happy flying

 @Painless360  thanks

They still work for basic flying but are poorly supported now.

I've not tried that but in theory it's possible. Outputs 1 and 2 are reserved for motors so the other two outputs could support two servos for a wing.. You'll also have to rig something up to get the 5v from the BEC in the ESC to the servos. See my trick in the Ardupilot/OmnibusF4Pro build from last summer.. Best of luck!

There are a few options, a lot of the modern OpenTX and Edgetx radios have a 'scanner' and vensors like ImmersionRC have had things like an RC signal power meter in the past too. The issue is that so many things use the 2.4Ghz band most pilots use now. Plus at 1.2km range the signals from the chap at the field will be tiny compared to local 2.4Ghz radio from things like local Wifi... best of luck

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rIZW4q3vrk0 covers it. There are more options for better OSD support in the latest DJI products now.

Hi there, quick question - is the holybro pixhawk 4 have all we need to build out an 4-8 motor copter? or should I get the holybro pix32 v5 with the board? what is the big difference?

Thanks for this video, it helped me to get a better understanding of flight controllers etc however, I'm still abit lost of what is the best one for me? I've just purchased the DJI 03 Air Unit and Integra goggles. It's been set up but is in low power mode and from the videos I've watched it says that I need a FC. I would really appreciate it if you could point me in the right direction of what I need...

Flight Controllers and Receivers are new to me. I have watched a number of your videos on receivers and flight controllers and became motivated to take apart a Syma S39, an inexpensive RTF heli purchased from Amazon, to see if I could identify the RC components but I didn't see the kind of RC components setup the you and many others speak of. I saw one card; not multiple and I don't think that that one card was a RX, nor Flight controller. I tried to see if there were any pads for servos but there were none. Do you have a video that would help me understand this?

Will the FC in rate mode in a fixed wing keep the plane stabilized from outside forces like wind? I guess what I would like to know is will it perform the same as AS3X?

Hey Lee, what’s your opinion on surge protectors between the Flight Controller and battery?

Thanks for the video. I have a question. Which current flight controller would you suggest, which already comes with a basic software, that I can use for a survey where I want to build my own firmware or modify an existing open source firmware like Ardupilot? Also budget friendly. Thanks again. :)

I used to do RC airplanes when I was a kid.  I have no such gear today.  However I do fly High Power Rockets.  I like the size, weight and mounting options of FPV cameras such as the RunCam Hybrid 2 and want to use one in my next rocket going to 135,000 feet.  What is holding me back is the requirement to press a button on the bare board once the flight is over.  Trouble is that sometimes it takes hours or even days to recover the rocket.  Either the TF card or the battery will run out leaving the video without an end of file.  I see that these split cameras can be attached to RC flight controllers to start and stop the camera remotely.  What is the most basic system I need to integrate into the rocket and at the launch site to accomplish this?

I have radio link cross flight. Going in a blade 450 heli. Any video,s to watch how to hook in up?  Ty

Hi Mr.Painless. Are the board options mentioned still relevant in 2025?

thanks for your helpful and great videos. I have a question, I'm a beginner for quadrotors but I really confused in your videos...could you help me where I should start?

When wiring the esc's can they be soldered together B+ all 4 and the grn 4 together into the battery plug?

Nice, I will ask you for help, there are a lot of systems on the market. I would like something all in one. Flight controller (RTH and stabilization) + gps + osd (telemetry on display). What can I currently buy on aliexpress or banggood? Now I have an FPV camera (with OSD input) and FPV glasses.

Aware that this is 4 years old now, but I have been flying a couple of planes (Bixler2 etc running iNav) with a F722 onboard and I am thinking about getting something like a Phoenix 2400 and wondered what flight controller and software you would recommend?

As a relatively newcomer to RC and coming from an RF electronics background, I've watched loads of videos to get me up to  some basic level of proficiency.  However, the one thing that I've never seen mentioned once is ESD control.   Every video i've seen shows people handling the electronics with bare hands; highly sensitive receivers, various FCB's etc. 
yet I also hear of pilots swearing at their piles of wrecked planes/quads because there was a receiver failure or it just 'fell out of the sky.
Am I missing something?

Hiiii very informative! I’ve just bought the air unit 03 and integer googles with head tracking, can u suggest a budget friendly transmitter and flight planner

If I wanted a controller for a glider for return to home and fly a planned route with way points what would you recommended recommend to get

What? DJI air unit only works with Betaflight?.  I'm in the middle of building a Nano Talon with a F405 and a DJI air unit.  I haven't powered it up or tuned it yet but did wire it using Sbus.  I don't see what the problem should be

Hi!
Can you Please point me in the right direction, I’ve seen a lot of your videos and others and many are for fpv etc..
I’m looking for a controller where I can set up waypoints on my computer and make the drone fly in a pattern or a route.
Also take control over drone from computer and get it back home. 
Good if radio is 2,4G since I will fly with meshtastic device on drone (and get it to hover or follow path)
I’d be so glad for tips on controller and radio, to get started..

Hello , we are a team from Egypt want to build our UAV , the question is can we do our own flight controller or that will be hard

At 7:23, what is that rod extending in both direction on the bottom of the drone?

Not sure. I've only built quads with them. I'd check out the details in the Arducopter wiki i.e.. https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/blob/master/libraries/AP_HAL_ChibiOS/hwdef/PH4-mini/README.md .. Best of luck

See my builds for beginners.  I choose newbie friendly hardware.., best of luck

Yep, check out the modern heli playlist. The series will start to be released this weekend.... Best of luck

Yes. See my video on the difference between MANUAL and ACRO. One still uses the stabilisation..

 @Painless360  Thank you!

I don't use them. https://youtu.be/JGGWoH7rXsQ

Most fight controller designed for Betaflight and INAV will ship with a version installed already. But, you would always update it to the latest and greatest as a matter of course for the setup.. Best of luck.

Not sure, I use them in models where they start and stop recording with power. You'd maybe need  a flight controller to control it but I've never used one like that.. Best of luck!

No, best of luck...

Pretty much, but a lot can change in 5 years in the hobby. Check out my Kit Picks 2025 video from last month to see the modern choices used... Happy flying!

New to RC as a whole or just the quadcopter part?

 @Painless360  just quadcopter

Yes, a simple PDB usually makes wiring and troubleshooting easier... Best of luck

Check out my flight controller comparison video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZwCLdkjqM-Y - that may help you choose based on what they can all do..

Check out my recent builds. The Speedybee F405 Wing and Wing mini are fab... Happy flying

I don't take any ESD steps here.. If you have an environment where you create lots of electric shocks/sparks when you touch things then basic ESD protection would help.. Happy flying!

There are far more “likely” reasons for our models to fall out of the sky than damage from ESD during handling/assembly.  I guess it could do it, but it would be a long way down the list of issues for us

See my kit picks video from August last year. RadioMaster radios and Matek or Speedybee flight controllers would be good... Best of luck

 @Painless360  I appreciate you, thanks

Basic missions =INAV. Full featured missions = Ardupilot

Please watch that other video... All explained there...

For that, you need a MAVLINK connection to the model alongside the regular RC control link. Lots of options, MLRS, MAVLINK in ExpressLRS,  Separate telemetry radios or even the Kahuna WiFi MAVLINK connection. I have videos on most of it... best of luck

I've only used them, never created one so can't comment. Best of luck with your project!

It is a Crossfire reciever antenna... Happy flying

how many types of controller are there and how can i search for them ????

where did the name painless 360 com from

I am looking at a new build. looking at Rush ESC, Blade solo. can  I to use a pixhawk 4 with Rush F722. need time and distance. want to build 6s 2p 22.2 batter pack. Is the F722 over kill? Thank You! keep up the great work

What causes the distance it will travel from controler

Lee do you have any idea why cc3d is no longer working with librepilot

Does anyone know any diagram or how I can use a quad fc for an airplane. Do I can connect a servo where usually goes a motor in a quad or how it is

What's a good flight controller for the AtomRC Killer Whale? I wanna build a full system with all the bells and whistles, gps, return to home, flying missions, multiple FPV cameras, one being gimbaled, flaps, the whole 9 yards. The Matek H743 V2 seems great, but I have no idea, I come from RC cars...

Painless any "cheap" pcb only flight controllers with can bus for Here 3, Here 4 for RTK?

Can I control iNav from a telemetry base station like I can with mission planner and ardupilot?

What for DIY-FC? Been building MultiWii from arduino nano and now hearing MultiWii is not good, what to use then?

what would you recommend as a first build craft - powered by Ardupilot ?

Is it possible to use a radio telemetry link like the holybro v3 on a F765 wing flight controller to use mission planner for a ground station? any idea how you would wire it? thanks...

Is ArduPilot anything to do with Arduino?

Thank you for this video

There are a huge number.  Traditional pilots like things like Spektrum and Futaba. Pilots who use modern open source alternatives usually end up with a Radiomaster or Frsky radio. Check out my Kit Picks 2021 video.. best of luck

Check out the video I did on the 6th August 2018 when the channel passed 100k subs. I cover the story in there.. Happy flying

I'd look at the software capabilities you need and let that decide the HW you want. See my comparison of INAV and Ardupilot.. I hope that helps.

 @Painless360  guess that means just use the ESC,VTX and Px4... Thank You for your time..

If you are talking about range, then check out my video on flying further... best of luck

 @Painless360  ty

I've not been following it so don't know. I suspect it's simply too underpowered now. Best of luck

I would strongly suggest that you use a flight controller designed for a wing. I've build wings using Omnibus flight controllers and INAV - check them out... Best of luck!

Thanks so much

That is an ambitious project for a first build. It depends on what you want. Arduplane or INAV. INAV will give you those things, for INAV I'd always use a Matek Wing flight controller. See my kit picks video from August last year.. Best of luck

 @Painless360  Thank you for your answer!
I've looked at a few of the Matek boards. The H743-SLIM seems like it will combine well with the built-in PDB on the killer whale.
I've seen your video on inav and so on - I think inav is the way to go for the mission planning and autonomous flight.
The reason why I want all these autonomous features is because in the final version of it, it will use a raspberry pi with a 4G stick as the receiver and vtx, and using internet for controls and video stream comes with latency and possible instability. So the more the machine can do by itself, the better ;)
I already built a car that works just like that as proof of concept.

I'm not aware (or heard of) and 'cheap' PCB flight controllers with CANBus. The only one I can think of are the higher end Matek-Wing series.. If you find one, please let me know.

Thank you.

Not that I've figured out. Happy flying!

 @Painless360  Thanks for the response!  Stay safe

If it works for you, why change?

 @Painless360  Maiden flight still to come (soon), so don't know yet, but looking possible alternatives. Thanks for informative content :)

Plane or quad? I have builds for both on ardupilot

 @Painless360  BOTH ! - which should I do first ? - where can I buy.

Yes. The telemetry radios can be attached to any spare UART. Defaults for the FC you're using are covered in the ardupilot wiki.. Best of luck

 @Painless360  Thanks much appreciated....

This is driving me crazy, updated firmware, windows 10 coms correct, 7tx, 7rx,gnd,5v connected on fc to holybro. Solid green leds....but keeps throwing up heartbeats error? Anyone have any ideas?

Have you selected the 57,600 baud for that port in Mission Planner? What troubleshooting have you tried. See my videos on adding the radios.. Best of luck!

Not really. Ardupilot is a suite of excellent flight control firmware for planes, multirotors, helis, cars, boats and even submarines. Arduino is a piece of hardware, a single board computer.. I hope that helps... Happy flying

 @Painless360  thanks. I'm quite familiar with Arduino but not flight controllers. Maybe Arduinos can be used as flight controllers?

