Interested in learning about wireless power? Subscribers can get up to 80% off my course Wireless Power to the People - Wireless Charging 101 on udemy using the coupon code "YOUTUBE" http://www.udemy.com/wireless-power-to-the-people-wireless-charging-101/?couponCode=YOUTUBE

rip headphone users

You have a great radio voice!

Did you really say "After I was done beeing a striper" ? HAHAH!

"After I was done being a stripper"
- What the heck did I just hear?
- Scrolls down to comments

You are my hero. I'm an art major taking an electronic art class and we're using arduinos and I've got no idea what I'm doing but this helped a lot!!!

Cool!
You can use it to amplify any phone!


Except iPhone 7!

I hold a BSEE and I just wanted to let you and your viewers know that you do a fantastic job with these videos, I only wished that I had these kind of resources when I was first learning this type of stuff.

" After i was done being a stripper..." LOL

3:53    "this metal sounds like Bieber !!!"🤣🤣🤣🤣

Never stop making videos, you are a much better teacher than anywhere else on the internet

I wish I could upvote this video twice.  Well done.

i love the simplicity of these videos, keep up the good work!

This one of my first electronic projects. I built one when I was 11.

I wasn't sure who to believe as several other youtubers (who specialize in audio electronics) suggest 200-500uF output caps. So I tried it and the bass was way quieter than everything else. Replaced it with something over 1000uF as you suggested (2200uF) and it's fine now. It led me down the rabbit hole of realizing the cap and speaker form a high pass filter, so I can calculate the right values in future now. :) Thanks for the great tutorial video!

I made this amplifier. Very great sounding. Thanks a lot and may god bless you for spreading such usefull knowledge to all.❤

Afroman is back! KA! Support the channel by clicking on the bell! This is a valuable channel. Hope your cat is doing well, pretty cat I remember...Pitchatu if I remember.

"sounds like bieber" ahaha Auto-subscribed!! Love your videos!

thank u sir for suggesting the great courses plus.....

Now I realize how many speakers I had wasted before during the stereo to mono conversion but without the resistors!

Rip headphones

Thanks! It's the product of many hours of work for every voiceover.

Indeed, my native language is spanish and even so I did understand every word you said, thanks for take your time to do this video the best way you can!!

I was just thinking this on one of his other videos.

***** I just didn't expect that.

Being a stripper is not a viable long term career.

Lol made that joke when I did my 10th grade demonstrative video, the teacher loved it.

Afrotechmods is it possible to have a pwm signal from a microcontroller be the input instead of the microphones that you have. would I have to change a lot at the input?

Afrotechmods I'm asking because a pwm signals isn't an analog signal so I'm just curious how it would work instead.

 @joeandrew8752  It's been 3 years, so I think you might already know the answer by now, but anyways. 
I think that a pwm signal closely relates an analog signal. When we convert DC to AC, we don't really get a sinusoidal wave at the output. 
Rather, it's a square wave looking wave. But it gets the job done. We call it AC.

well it would sound like shit

Anthropomorphous Dodecahedron as much as I'd like perfection I'll settle for function. So long as it'll function. Could you go in detail why it would sound bad and what you would recommend otherwise.

Well generally speaking sound produced by square wave (which is pwm) is a bit distorted or something (unless we are talking high frequencies). It's distorted in a sense that it has some additional frequencies other than its own. But it will produce sound if that's what you need.  I don't know your application to suggest anything different so what do you need this for?

im using adc to convert voice and send it wirelessly to another mirco controller and using pwm to recreate the voice. His circuit is the same one i was going to use since i used it for a radio before, i think a capacitor should alleviate most of the distortion, before the amplification.

Halvor Andreas Nilssen Lol I thought I was hearing things

Lmao

Yeah he was a ‘striper’.  He loves stripes.  Most of his other videos are dedicated to him creating stripes.

You can add a bluetooth receiver that connects to that 3.5mm jack and you got yourself a bluetooth speaker.

And in 2020 when even more phone companies have "mustered the courage" it is almost a rarity to have a PROPER headphone jack....Thanks for nothing "FruitHeads"... ;)

It will work with the dongle.

kissben 
I know that, because I have one

BoomBrush me 2...

Pikachu has his own pikachannel http://www.youtube.com/user/PikachuCuteCat

That's cool, thanks for sharing it! So much to learn!

Yes! Been waiting sooo long for an awesome video like this.

hey welcome back ,keep it up

"After I was done being a stripper,"

Africantechmods, you rock bro! I built one exactly to your specifications and it works great. Greetings from Amsterdam!

I need more videos like this. I dont understand what all that means but it still entertaining to watch

... thank you for sharing your unique skills with us! Presentation flawless!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Been looking for this for a while now, thanks a bunch

i love you and this channel!

This was just what I was looking for! Thank you very very much!!!

He's learning on his own! Let's get him!

Def building this as a project. Will document all steps, sims, etc., & make the case out of acrylic so it the work can be seen.  Thanks so much!  👍

Just stumbled upon this channel 
B A man
A Lot of great info simplified into an easy to learn visual and audible electronic gold nugget 
Right on man great job

Again great video Afro :) thanks

Alright, very cool, that was a handy little video. Thank you.

It made all the difference putting the caps across the power rails and adding one to the bypass pin

omg, it was around 6-7 years ago when i found your channel and got into electrical stuffs in detail, not just that i want to be an electrical engineer, i think i can thank my interest in this hobby(now as an EE student, in my second year) partly for you. I have built some pretty basic motor and 9v battery and it drove another motor which worked as a generator for a third one. But this was the point(Your first videos) where i got into learning from Youtube and i gained most of knowledge from there(You, Dave Jones and so many others). Fascinating how much i learnt from Youtube. Thanks for your older and especially newer videos after a long break. Great video as always!

Nice video, keep up the good work! Thumbs up !

Thank you! You're an amazing pedagogue!

Just worked so fine 🙂 ..thank you so much

Haha That's at 1:10 in the video. "After I was done being a stripper" His Extra job must be wire-stripper. :=D

lool

that's awesome, wow im just watching his vids and i hope to gain lots of knowledge so i can build awesome stuff and save money and teach others

you could also build two of those, one for each channel left and right and BAM stereo amp

Just love ur videos wow... The tutorial, everything abt it. Thank you!

Wow this is the only set up that works. It worked for me. I bought a pack of 10 LM386 chips on Amazon I thought they came defective because never sounded loud and had a popcorn sound. But the way this circuitry is set up works perfect. Very loud

I learned alot in this video, especially the dc output cancellation 😅

Thank you for sharing this project! I've made an SMD version with EasyEda, JLCPCB and LCSC and it works just perfect! Maybe I'll publish an instructable!

it looks good worth a go just for the fun of it. Thanks for sharing your knowledge.

he is back

I just love your videos...! They are very informative.

Thanks for making this nice video. I build this circuit today and it works fine.

i really like how you explain what's going on and why and how to solve the issues. WEell done! :D

I used one of those on my research project back in 1985. Worked good. It amplified my Votrax speech synthesizer controlled with a Radio Shack MC-10.

Just made this amplifier and it's working perfectly. I even added a potenciometer to adjust the volume. Thanks for making this video I've always wanted to make something like this

Haha! After you were done being a "striper" classic!!!

this metal sounds like bieber died laughing man

The 104 capacitor @ 0.1uF  always work like magic

Thanks 😊 ❤

Thanks for sharing this Sir.  Added 50k pot at input and works good.

Thanks , man , this is really nice!

would love to get such a video on higher power amplifiers built with mosfets and such

wow you sound great, and thanks for the great and easy to follow video.!

Yay! Glad you liked it!

Where do you connect the pot?

 @tinywhoopfan pin 1 of the pot in between the 1k resistors that convert stereo to mono. pin 2 of the pot directly to pin 3 of the amp chip. and lastly pin 3 of the pot goes to ground. hope this helps you

How? Do u have a Circuit diagram . i cant imagin.

 @quswer8206  you still need it? I can try to make one

Works Beautifully!

superb, loved this.

Great tutorial again. I will try it.

Nice video, and well explained.

this is extremely helpful, thanks

Great tutorial on the LM386. The RC network recommended on the output is called a Zobel network or Boucherot cell. The purpose of this is to modify the speaker impedance at high frequencies so that the amplifier will remain stable across its whole bandwidth. The LM386 can sound surprisingly good when it's set up just right and used within its limits.  
Another interesting point about the LM386 is that it produces more distortion as the supply voltage increases if used with low impedance speakers such as most hifi units. With a 4 Ohm speaker it will perform better with a 5V supply than with higher voltages. This is because the output current it can supply is limited, so a higher supply voltage just introduces more THD without actually giving any more power to the load.

This is awesome!!! Thank you for this video..

I can't believe how well your version works !! every circuit samples on internet sounds orrible, and yours is awersome !! I candrive a 4x12 marshall cabinet with an amazing volume

great video!!! thx for te stereo to mono tip.

Awesome, great stuff !!!

nice simple design, i just made one of these for an external speaker for my CDV 700 Geiger counter. works great and im pleased to be a subscriber to your channel.

another awesome video! thanks.

Thanks. This video helped me a lot.

GOOD, NICE video! Thank you!

realy liked the video learned a lot

Use two for stereo= twice as loud! Great video.

You are wow, I came across the youtube videos for my project i.e. Parametric Audio Equalizer where I also need a amplifier. None of the video was clear as you explained, But you are video means a lot to me, thank you for sharing with us, great job...

Good informative video...Thanks!

Hi Afro! I missed you a lot

1:14 - This cracked me up! 😄

I missed you too.

Me too

1:16 I heard "After i was done being a stripper" lmao

Great vid thanks

Great video! And I used to put a capacitor between pins 1 and 8 to increase the gain to 200, and that makes it a good electric guitar amplifier!

great vídeo, compa

Another very interesting video tutorial.  Keep 'em coming!  Now I want to build this amp for myself.  I guess I'll have to start looking on all of my salvaged electronic boards for parts since I am retired now on a fixed income.  :-(  Pulling components off of old computer boards, an amplifier and an old UPS power supply that smoked should keep me busy for a while as I continue to watch more of your video tutorials.  Thanks for posting these interesting videos on electronics.
W Rusty Lane in eastern Tennessee (Witherington Place Railroad)

In case anyone missed it (because I did), one if the resistors is connected to ground, the wire is just real thin.

Thanks!!!! You are so Awesome!!!!!!!

Thank you Sir🌹🙏🏻

super very good

Thank man, i made it watching your tutorial and using your schematic!

thq for awesome video im very inspired by you

Works great 👍

very good video

Insulation: My pronunciation 

Insealation: He’s pronunciation
Lol

I built this circuit and now I'm picking up radio stations.

Thanks man

Good project

Excellent tutorial! The lm386 amplifier was my first amplifier I built 2 of them was used with 2 aiwa bookshelf speakers, very loud. No I have been building much higher powered amps, such as my 4,000 watt amp.But that's what I do now.

Very cool.

Thank you sir

How it works??

Does it work well

How on earth can you power a 4000 watt amp? I mean, you're lucky to get 1500W out of the wall and that's an entire dedicated circuit.

THANK YOU

Circuit input works, but in the output sound is not coming

gunna use this to make belt guitar amp

Thank you so much 💞🥰

Great video.  I was looking into amplifying output of my Helmet speakers.  Trying to build something as small as possible.

I want to learn a bit more about different types of microphones, how to use them etc... But I'm too lazy to read so I shall wait to see when it gets posted, or if ill get a comment saying there is already an extensive video on it. keep up the great work!

I had a similar circuit to yours but it was a little noisey. After increasing a few cap values to match yours and adding that 100nF cap between LM386 pin 6 and ground instead of the RC combination I had, I have a very quiet circuit. Taking your advice to shorten up the wires eliminated the am radio station I was picking up too.

an other awesome video of one of the greatest explain brains on YT - thank you!

good video

Loving this channel!! 
If there was a way to order supplies from a Canadian retailer and support these types up uploads, i would use it. ;]

nice video

hahahah.... free tutorial with free jokes. 2 thumbs up!!!

thanks bro. you rerally saved me ad my lab partner bro. ou are the best. bro.

- Purdue ECE 2K7 (two thousand and 7) ( 20007) (X [bar]X [bar]VII) struggler.

Hi, I think your videos are awesome and I learn a lot in each one. What needs to change if I wanted to design a larger power amplifier?

huu! thank you so much

THANK YOU!!!!

awesome!!

Muy bueno hermano, funcionó perfecto.

I can not believe how is this world. Yesterday I thought about Afrotechmods and if he is going to release a new video and here you have it. Ok ,ok... I also thought he got hurt on some of his blowing and catching fire experiments.

Love the sarcasm

tips fedora

yea, i agree, he helped much me alot too.

Nice.

thanks

its work done thanks sir and i add potentiometer befor the speaker its value between (1-5) k ohm and i can control  the sound

Playing this video on my new Amplifier... Thanks Afrotechmods!✌

You've eased my intrest. I hope to do some small projects, then try 60 wpc or more stereo tube amplifier. Slow, going. I'll keep watching. I bought some Chinese junk and was out hundreds with junk that cost too much to send back. W

Thanks for your work, I have learned hugely by watching your videos. Just one thing: my son (13 years old) has built this amplifier, following your instructions. He has soldered everything and powered with a Hanmer HM305P, it works fine for some time, then boring noises start to litter the performance. Our hypotesis is that the power supplier, at a certain point, stops working properly, introducing annoying disturbs. We are planning to feed the amplifier with a battery but, in this meanwhile, a comment from your proficient side, would be welcome.

where have I seen this before

U r amazing

I usually use TDA1554s for generic audio amplification purposes. 4x11W or 2x22W, just as simple to use as LM386 and still quite cheap.

"after I was done being a stripper..." LMFAO

Ive watched a few videos from this guy and noticed i hadnt subscribed, and then he said "im done being a stripper" proud to say im a subscriber now.

AFTER I WAS DONE BEING A STRIPPER!! OMGAH THATS GOLD HAHAHAHAHAHAH

One cool variation: instead of joining L+R channel inputs, duplicate the circuit, each with its independent L and R input and speaker, and get full stereo sound. With one full Watt per channel to boot.

rip headphone users

Like. Mine turned out well, on perf board keeping componenets close with lots of solder.  Thanks for the confidence boost.

At 1:14 subliminal joke: "After I was done being a stripper..." LOL!

Exactly what I needed. 

I just tore down an old Casio keyboard and I was like "How would I take these speakers and plug them into my computer"

This would be interesting to setup for my PC's beep speaker. I have it set to do a grub init tune however it's pretty quiet compared to IBM PC's of the 90's. Have it powered from a molex +12v

Your dear SIR are a RAZIXT with a Z all that video and not even an smiling cat!!! Never the less very nice video!! thanks for posting.."By the way I have my two cats here in my lap fighting for real state to lay down!

I think this is just what I've been looking for, other than I want a stereo amp.  I'll have to make the adjustments.  Always have loved the little LM386 amp IC.

TDA chips are rarity now.

 @richardlighthouse5328  what the heck happened in those 1.8 years since he posted the comment?

 @richardlighthouse5328  TDA Amplifier chips are actually still quite popular. You'll see a shitload of them in many Class-D and A/B Amplifiers, Including; TDA2030A, TDA7491LP, etc.

Great to hear!

You can just use two LM386 and feed one channel into each.

I'm watching this and listening to it with the circuit I learned to build here. Sounds good but I need to use the 1000uf. It has a 450uf on a 4ohm 3w speaker. Sure a speaker box of correct size would change the situation also.

Connect pin 2 to GND with 150 ohm resistor, not directly. It will work better. Put 100uf capacitor in parallel with DC input. There is one in your diagram but we often forget it! And if you want bass booster, connect 333 ceramic capacitor (0.033uf) in series with a 15K resistor, and then connect other pin of 15K resistor to pin 1 LM386, and other pin of ceramic capacitor to pin 5. You can also adjust gain between pins 1 and 8. I usually use LM386 as preamp that can have up to 200 gain!

You need a capacitor in parallel to the power source, even if it is a battery. bypass is not needed (pin 7) and will most likely cause some more troubles.

Output capacitor should be 1000uf at least to get good bass and better working when placing 2.2 to 4.7uf capacitor value between your stereo to mono converter and LM386 input

Replace output filter 10 ohm resistor with 4.7 ohm.

Hi AfroTechMods, Good video. I like the old LM386 for small amps. I have built a lot of them and from John Audio Tech on YT I learned that you need to have a separate ground path for Input, Power, and Output. They should all junction right at pin 4, ground. His video is " LM386 and proper grounding". At best you can expect around .6 mW of output power. It is best to power them at 9 volts for heat dissipation. Do not use 4 ohm loads. 9 volts, 8 ohms and your golden, as John Audio Tech say's. Good to see a new upload. Be good, C.

1:13 "After i was done being a stripper"
that just kill xD

Hope you got good cash for being a entertainer xD

I'm so glad I found this channel, even if I wish I found it sooner. 
"Now that I'm done being a stripper" 😂

Hi, great easy to understand video. I really liked that you included the first version which gave unexpected results and then showed how to counteract that. I do have a question however, if i were to make this circuit for a stereo application could I just double up the circuitry to achieve the same result? Or should I add something else to counteract the coupling of the two signals for instance? furthermore how would I add volume/ gain control to a circuit like this and would it be possible to get gain control for two channels using only one potentiometer?
Thanks in advance, i hope you get to see my question.

Please can you make a video of using the lm386 to amplify microphone signals

So if I want to make a stereo output amplifier, I'm gonna need 2 of those LM386 and fed them with each channel respectively?

keep the change...

I use tda2030
pentawatt package
up to 20W
dual supply for no coupling cap.

"After I was done being a stripper" 😂

Loved the stripper remark that got you a comment and our thumbs up, that's good stuff right there

Love it ,what was the last schematic of this amplifier it 's awesome !!! thanks ...How can you add more speakers   ???

Awsome vid ty. If we make two of these can it be used for stereo ?.

Since its a Mono Amplifier, im considering building a dual LM386-4 Amplifier. One to amplify with each channel.

Will a 10W speaker work??

It works well but when there is no audio played it starts humming and it's really annoying by the way thanks for the amazing video

Because it's the amount of current flowing into the resistor and capacitor in series. It's the rate at how fast the capacitor charges/discharged, is what makes the waves... Charge and discharge curve.. RC5.

Capacitors supply voltage when needed..
the resistor after the capacitor is what creates and gives the current to the.
Capacitors and resistors being used together are used for charge/discharge if you've ever seen it drawn/plotted..

I've been studying electronics for a long time.. it's actually paying off. Everything is basically about variable voltages.. and input signals.. and how you handled them.

love your channel....but you really need a resistor w that 1oo nanofarad...

This is great. Can I use that with my 8" Kenwood woofers speakers?

Cass Virgillo but i have a 4ohm speaker :(
can i use a 4 ohm resistor in series to make 8ohms? I'm powering it with 5V dc wall adapter???

yo dawg

Sir you made me love and learn electronics, few month ago I tried to make a stereo amplifier  by using 2 of this circuit, but when connecting them to a stereo potentiometer I get a very loud noise, would you please help me do that the proper way.

I followed the schematic that the datasheet gives and it doesn't even sound good. Thanks for this video!

I used a battery from a Chevy and 88000k farad capacitors.

Afroman, I just found your channel and I'm hooked! 
I recently became interested in electronics and, as part of a research paper, I'm trying to build a sound installation that needs me to build many amplifiers/hooking stuff up.
Would you mind giving me a hand (I'd have some questions)?

"This metal would like a bieber"

"After I was done being a stripper" 😂 BTW thanks for the tutorial

using 100k resistors instead of 1k resistors on the input makes it sound slightly better and reduces noise from stray radio waves

Ha! "this metal sounds like beiber"

is it me or does he sound exactly like the king of random?

👍👍😊

“The metal sounds like Bieber” 😂😂😂😂

Could you describe how/why a more complex stereo to mono summing circuit would be made?

I have a hard time understanding the diagrams so I use what I'm seeing in the videos as a reference. Couldn't figure out why it wasn't working. Good God I had the chip backwards.

Just <3

After I done being a STRIPPER 😆

What would be the most important specs to keep in mind when deciding on a alternative op amp for audio applications?

great video, but the best part is that you tested the amp with the seveneves audiobook... HAUHAUAHUAHUAHAUH

you're back. yaayyyy !!!1

after you were done being "what" ??🤣🤣

Glad you liked the video. But I don't understand why people keep saying "you're back". Did none of the videos I uploaded in the last few months appear in your subscription feed?

i know. but not every day i'm using internet and check my subscription feed on my youtube account, not like everyone does. but, "generally speaking", i love every video that you made. Great teacher on youtube. :D. sorry for my bad english.

Hi i have a UTC1316 amplifier and i dont know where i can add the aux cable

That series resistor capacitor on the output is not really a high pass filter, it is a Zoebel network and what that does is keep the output impedance steady across the audio spectrum by compensating for the different inductance of the speaker coil which is dependent on frequency. They are also very useful to make sure you have a good 8 or 4 ohm impedance at the crossover point of a crossover network.  That is why the resistor is added in series with the capacitor.  A lot of what causes the high frequency oscillation is the impedance mismatch  and a Zobel network fixes that problem.

Great One ! Mate, Can you also do a simple Speaker Level Amp ? Want to beefup my center channel output from a samsung soundbar. I appreciate your valuable input Cheers

Get a PAM8403, which can drive with 5V happily. 
There is a huge distortion on LM386 with 5V.

ok can i replace the headphone jack with a mic? because i want to make mic amplifier

Don't ask for a pole dance until the music comes on, if it was me I pull out my smoothing capacitor to impress the ladies

I like vedio... will u make a tube amp for headphones pls... i need thm

COME GET SOME!!!

Could to make a video on a better amp like 150w x 1

I wonder if you can do this to a 80's boombox...

Lm 339n also working?

I made this amplifier and it works but it has some sound like in the video before you put the capacitor. I tested with a 47nf capacitor and it removes the noise a little but again it makes noise like beeper

can you make a video how to make an tda1514a audio amplifier circuit please :(

Metal sounds like beiber 😆

Thanks this was the simplest one...also could you let us know how much wattage speaker did you use here

I always used this amp. Thanks for the info on the Great Courses Plus!!!!

Worked perfectly thx but what do I do if I wanted to add another speaker to it.. Do I have to decrease the value of the output capacitor or....

can you do a micro self contained mp3 player with this amplifier?

Thank you so much, please can I connect 2 8-ohms speakers to the same  amplifier circuit

Hello I watch your videos and I really like those stuffs. I have a question, can I use this amp for my guitar? Since I have a semi-acoustic guitat an don't have a amp, should I build this for my guitar?

HAIL TO THE KING BABY

JBL, feel my power!!! for less than 3 dollars... hell yeah!

Hi! Great circuit! i have a question. I have to make a circuit similar to this but a little more complicated. I was wondering if you could help me!!! :c

Using in open loop?

How to power up the audio amplifier circuit without a battery source, I mean is there anyway to power the the circuit directly from the AUX cable without any external power supply to the circuit? please help.

👍👍😊❤

I have a LM386 M82. Maybe only available in the India Region.

I just finished making this circuit i am still getting the bieber noise

can i have video of making audio amplifier using lm386 with volume control

You could use two of the 386 chips at the same time since they are mono, have one of them amplify one channel then have the other amplify the other channel for basically two watts, Allowing more power to be transferred to the whole system, and one speaker for each amp, so just the one amp wont draw more current and get hot or quieter when hooked to more than one speaker especially from delivering a decent amount of current :) Awesome Videos Afroman!

Hello I'm looking for the circuit diagram for the 2way intercom

What if some musician decided to just delay one channel ever so slightly so that if both signals go through a circuit like this they cancel each other? That would be a whole another level of trolling lol, then you put on your headphones and everything is right again.

Make the next video on Ground Loop Isolator.

1:15 bro didn't really say that didn't he 💀

Hi bro,I install this circuit to my breadboard,i can heard a quality sound,but after i install the circuit few minutes my LM386 chip temperature was goes up,why is it happened ?please can you give me a solution for this?🙏

Hi! i kwow it is self evident to you...but you might tell that you need to put a speaker in a (large enough) box to get any lows/bass (as people watch you using bare speaker-no box). Just cardbord box, plastic drain tube that fits speaker or big tin can works ok (to boost bass).
Otherways people might think they messed up the circuit and has no bass output.

i used a 0.1uF with 50V rating in parallel with the output, and there is a lot of noise.

1:13 After you were done being a what?

it is a very simple amplifier but it get distorted when I increase volume .I used a parallel capacitor ,it has get limited the increase in volume

.1 uf or 100 uf from output to ground? You indicate 100uf in the schematic.

Hi sir, can you tell me what software used in this video to view the audio waveform with frequency reading?

You can use 4 of them. each channel 2 chips in bridge mono mode. Even more power.

Never thought of that, they have a bridge mode? you could probably get even more power if you had some sort of digital splitter for Dolby 5 Channel and be able to amplify 5 different channels with 5 of these. Or Bridge mono mode 5 channels. so 10 of these. @KneppaH 

i also want  a volume controller in it how can i add that would you please help me

TDA2822  is best!  
IC SMD may be using as amplifier for microphone or more... 
Power DIP IC TDA2822  = 1,5W on channel.

I want to use this to build a speaker array which produces 2 high frequencies to generate "beats" of normal frequency sound. Should I still use the capacitors to get the bass notes?

Can you, instead of left and right audio just have wave generated using function generator?

I have make the same ckt and everything connects properly and speaker also make hiss sound but unable to play music. Please help me out of this

How would I be able to build this same build but with a potentiometer to control volume?
I wanted to make something like this for my friend in a case that looks like a DJ's turnable with a volume control for one of the two potentiometers I was planning on using or if there were more things I could easily add, have some slide potentiometers and buttons as well.

will it also work with 5 v and an output in headphones (week source signal)

So, looking at the schematic at 3:00 I see multiple connections to ground, but some components having different sources of power. Could we connect each ground to the same grounding column on the breadboard?

Can you do a video on how to make a 120 ac to roughly 100 volts dc or a little less converter ? I can't seem to find anything on the Internet about it , all I find is 30-50 v dc converters any help will be appreciated sir

So how is it possible that you get such “clean” sound (relatively) even though the signal has a positive dc offset on it.
Wouldn’t it be better to use a virtual ground circuit after the battery?

Question....I have a mono single channel input that I'm looking to split into 2 signals at the output stage (stereo headphones with the same signal in each ear).  Is it as simple as reversing the 1k resistors to go to 2 channels after the potentiometer for volume control, or even simpler by just splitting it with no resistors since there's no signal to balance?

Great Video.
This may be a stupid question but you say the battery will drain quickly, would the battery drain when no music is playing or only when there is something going through the amplifier?
Also, Do you know if you could build a circuit that will stop music from going over a set level. 
I deal with people with learning difficulties and they play music too loud but don't have the capacity to turn it down. Thinking, if there was something to reduce sound to a set level would be a great piece of equipment and save the LD from getting evicted.
Thanks for help.

What should I do if i want to control the output gain? Via potentiometer?

how to control the volume? without using the volume in the source example in CP. how i can control the volume in the circuit?

Love your vids Afroman, really helping me with my learning. Can I ask, could you replicate this circuit (with another speaker) so you have the left channel feeding one circuit and the right channel feeding the other? So as to be stereo. Thanks in advance

can i request for the diagram with picture fOr the parts

Can you add a volume control?

use 2 lm386 for stereo

Please get a LetsEncrypt Cert for your Website! I am grinding my teeth just going there:)

i have a problem when i built it....at higher volumes,distortion is very high. plz give me a solution

Yes absolutely! Think of it as dual mono

Thank you so much. Keep up the good work!

How to calculate the resistor and capacitor values for oscillation filtering?

How do I change the volume of the amplifier using a pot resistor?

can anyone tell me about the speaker specification?!

9v battery are crap because if the series resistance being so high

How do I, connect a microphone to this

@Afrotechmods: Is the loudness, quality (distortion, clipping) of the N-1 and the N-4 version the same at 12V ? I'm asking because I want to use it on a 12V PC power supply and there is quite a price differnence between the N-1 and N-4 version when buying many of them. There is also a different output resistance. Which one is better for using with 4 Ohm speakers ?
Thanks in advance !

What about using a microphone audio input?

Could you use this with a piezo pickup mic?

how do i tone it down slightly great but bit shrill

I'm interested in the speaker shown in this video.  Is it 3.5" in diameter?

"Can power almost any speaker"
Can it run a Team Sundown 18?

Does putting the pass filter at the output differ from that at the input??

How did you get the LM386N-4 spice model

FYI - I buy LM386-4 on Ebay.  Why -4?  It puts out a full Watt,(1000mW),  -1  puts out a puny 325mW, (if that).

Make a simple P2 mic amplifier

Cool video. I'm super jealous of people that know electronics. I've taken several online MOOCs and more or less understand the basics and how to do linear circuit analysis, but I'll never understand how people just know how to design circuits and where to put resistors, caps and inductors. Like, why do you need to put 1000 ohm resistor after the input leads?

How can I make a voice changer from a kids transformers mask super loud ??

Bro, is it necesary to have the capacitor with only the  voltage ratings you are provided. Can I also use approximation of it

If I wanted to put a potentiometer where would I put it???

I know this was posted Four years ago but is there anyway to change the volume of the speaker or is it constant?

Use the volume control on your audio player, or use a potentiometer as a voltage divider before the input to the amplifier.

Can I hook up 2 speakers to this

DN song :D

Where should I place a variable resistor to control the volume?

I dont really understand how does the RC high pass filter reduce the high frequency noise going into the speaker... and what would happen if I substituted the 100nf cap with a 100uF cap?

Could I wire up multiple speakers to the same output?

Would this have enough power to drive 230 ohm speakers?

I am going to use your diagram tell me the positive voltage VCC and the 100 microfarad vcc at pin 6 are connected together? And that's the only place positive voltage is connected to?

Hi except for the supply voltage, do I need to provide a supply current for the lm 386 chip

What if I want to amplify the sound from an electret microphone? I hope it's a simple circuit adjustment you can explain to me in a comment, otherwise, please do a video on how to do that. I just want to hear clear sound from the microphone in the speaker.

5:14 RIP headphone users, unsurprisingly.

i am getting extra noise hum buzz ground lood n all when i use my amp with laptop on without charging mode and when is put my lapto on charging and use the preamp noise hum buzz ground loops get even more stronger than before pls give me solution for this

What do the resistors across the audio signal do?

Hi, how 100nF capacitor in parallel, doesn't bypass the ac signal to gnd.

Hello, I am new to audio engineering and I am trying to see if I can create a studio condenser microphone from scratch caveman style. So far I have managed design a tension jig for the diaphragm in AutoCAD and 3D print it from my university library. I am currently planning to mill a copper disk for the backplate. My goal is to see how good of a quality a regular person can  build a mic  from the ground up without any trades secrets or corporate sorcery. I was interested in your minimal amplifier circuit video as I think this might work as a great pre-amplifier for the mic. Also, I've read that passing the original signal coming from the sensor through a less electronic components results in less contamination / distortion of the signal with noise. I think having some sort of Faraday cage like metal mesh around it can block the ambient electromagnetic radiation and hence interference. Do you by chance know how loud the noise in the output is for your final circuit? Also, do you think this circuit could work for amplifying the sensor's output?

Is it cool if I connect this amplifier circuit to the output of the arduino uno for my project? any ideas?

Can I connect the output to the RCA mono audio ? I need a filter circuit for connecting rpi gpio audio to RCA composite tv. Any suggestions?

Can I do it with lm386n-1

@Afrotechmods Can I use ic lm386n-1 on these circuit?

So i got all the components tried it haven't worked maybe it's the speaker? Or maybe the LM386 i haven't used the same one he used ? Can anyone help me?

how could this be adapted to power a 3w loudspeaker>?

If I were you, I would redirect his positive wire a couple spots down and link it back to the big capacitor with your variable resistor 5:20 is what im looking at

can we make this circuit on the pcb?

so what's the best way to convert stereo into mono?

Would this work with a microphone to make an intercom? Would it just be connected in place of the 3.5mm jack?

hi , how can i make it stereo?

Nice...can you show a simple stereo LM386 based schematic

if we want to beef it up can we use a class B amplifier at the output?

What op amp can use that will output 3.5-4 watts

I want to use it for a   small 8 ohm speaker, and add a volume control, but also it only needs mono input. So I plan to use one  1 k resistor to input, and  what would you suggest, using a 1k potentiometer instead on the input, or use something on the speaker end.  Can I get away with the  potentiometer to be connected via jumper wires to a case mounted pot?   I should also add that the input audio will come from a 4046 voltage controlled oscillator. Would a capacitor in series with the input from the 4046 be a good idea?

DAMN, I made this amplifier, but it picks up radio frequencies and mobile 4G 3G and 2G signals, wifi aswell I think, dunno how to fix this

Will the audio output stay the same if I supplied it with +5V DC? Like from a USB Charger? Thanks for the video!

Would that 386-4 (min 5V) be ok to use with a USB power source? I think they are about 5V. Also, Would I need to change any of the components in this schematic powering it off 5V? 

Thanks.

i place o 47 μF capacitor between 1 -8 pins .I am having whistle in speakers . What is wrong?

With audio don't you have some negative voltage signals? How are you able to amplify that using a positive only voltage? Don't you need plus and minus 9 voltage?

did you self study and learn electronics? how did you get the knowledge to build something like this with all the calculations

Would this circuit work for electronic instruments too? could I get a usable guitar amp out of this circuit?

What will be changed if I replaced the 100uf capacitor with a 220uf..

can i use lm386-1

If I wanted to use a 3 ohm speaker and add a 10k potentiometer for volume, what modifications would be needed? Could I just add a 5 ohm resistor in series with the speaker to simulate a 8 ohm speaker? Would I place the volume pot between pin 3 and ground to make a voltage divider?

Hi i have a question: my audio cable only outputs 200mV is this normal?

Can I use 12v dc supply?

Brian C It is the same circuit without the mixing in the beginning and for each channel one circuit and speaker.

You need to shield the circuit in a metal enclosure, keep all leads as short as possible and use shielded cable on the input.

can i use an 8 ohm speaker?

Can you replace the battery with usb? So u can power it using the pc ?

so here is my question, what if you take that system of yours, and apply it on car audio? i mean, for example you got 4 audio monitors in your car, you just make separate circuit for each monitor and instead of connecting them to a phone with jack u directly connect them to your car audio-radio, will that work? or instead of making separate circuit for each monitor you just make a 4 channel audio amp circuit and connect it, will it work? i hope i described my point well...

So chips determine the wattage of an amp?

Do you know what the exact gain for the circuit should be?

Where did you get the speaker and the battery case? Also how did you sauter the wires onto the cut earphone wires?

how to increase the watt the watts ?

What is the voltage at the output

Why 25v on the caps? What determines what volt cap to use?

how do you connect 2 of the circuits together to make stereo? and do you need double the power supply for 2 ic's?

How do you zoom the noise freq at the osci? Can you explain it too?

Hi, have a question why they are 1k resistors before the OpAmp ? Lg patrick

When I connect my arduino to this amplifier, I get a "pop" sound when it powers up. The sound is great after that, but is there any way to cancel this popping sound at the beginning? For clarification, the amplifier and arduino share the same 5V power source. Even after providing a 9V power supply from a battery to the amp, I still get that pop when the arduino switches on. Any help would be huge. Thanks!

Can you tell me " if " and " how " could I connect this circuit to the arduino, because I want to send sound through my arduino to this speaker ? Please help me

oh tought that the bull taking a shit is part of the website on page of those speakers,  hmm guess that HD does make everything better

May i know what is your speaker impedance?

I constructed this project but I get very very low sound from the speaker 
What was my mistake ?😫

I got problem sir..when I touch aux jack with bare hands,my speaker works well but when I use phone and play audio, the speaker is not working. It is producing very little sound such that I have to make my ear touch the speaker to hear.What is the reason behind this...and I am using 8 ohm 2 watt speaker..🤔

Well it is not so important for me how loud it could go, but the bass it can put out... when i join it with 50w speaker, will it give a fat bass out of it? :)

Regarding the 100nF and 1000uF caps on the output, the 100nF cap will always have a much higher impedance than the 1000uF, so wont higher frequencies choose the path of least resistance, i.e, through the 1000uF cap? I dont get it :-(

Why do i need a 1000uF Capacitor again? It wont give you mare bass than there already is in the recording, will it? Also they use a 250uF Capacitor in the Datashet from Texas instruments.

Hello! I am new in the world of speakers and audio amplifier. Can I connect the + of the LM386 to a simple PWM to reproduce a bip sound (at a certain frequency) and use the DutyCycle to modulate the volume. Does the ciruit need to be changed in this case? Thanks a lot.

Is the top capacitor in your circuit for decoupling (100uf), and the bottom for noise filtering(1000uf)?

if I feed in the signal of an electric guitar directly to this circuit will it work too? Since I only had an UTC2822H I copied its "BTL application circuit" (which I also don't know what means) and powered it up with 5.7V, all I achieved was a finger tip burner and silence. can anyone help me or should I just buy an LM386?

Where can i give a potenciometer for amplify or weaken sound?

i have a question can i use lm741 instead of lm386

Can I use mic instead of jack?

Hi what kind of capacitor is 100nf??

Did you use MB102 breadboard?

Wow, another awesome video. Can't wait to translate! Good job
//BTW, why don't you add a cap between input and IC to protect circuit?

How can I connect two separate lm386 modules that are mono, together in bridge to achieve stereo with a single power supply?
Can this be done without a 3rd lm386 ic?

Can I use 4v acid battery?

Can i run it with 5v?

does this circuit also work with a microphone?

can i use LM358 instead?

Would this work with 7 volts or is that not enough?

Can I switch the LM386 with a LM 741?

I tried building this circuit and my speaker made a low buzzing noise and my opamp started heating up rapidly hitting 40°C within 5 seconds

Can I use 4700uf instead of 1000uf?I don't have 1000uf.

Will using 5V as the supply power (VCC) give me 1/2 watt of amplified output?

I'm assuming that people will use it with phones, laptops, mp3 players etc. which will all have series caps on their output anyway.

Aha. Thank you for your very fast reply!.

Did you just assume his usage? Omg, in 2017...

How long would a 9V battery last with this circuit?

How should i add 10k potentiometer to above circuit ( IC pin numbers-?)

Heya bro 🎉 your circuits are great it’s important I mention I successfully made your speaker circuit. I’m interested to know I have a speaker that’s 3.5 ohm 3 watt and how does this react in this circuit ? Using ofcourse 5 to 9v

1:02 I was using those earbuds

Wouldn't it be better to turn on mono on the sound source and then just use one of the outputs.

"After I was done being a stripper"
- Afrotechmods

my chip heats up

Who are your favorite YouTubers? : )

Will it work to amplify a crystal radio? Btw, the explanation is really easy to understand. Thank u ❤

Hello! I have never built your circuit. However, the LM386 is famous for the following: ① The LM386 has an old and unique design, and omitting the 10KΩ to 5KΩ input volume on pin 3 will result in poor sound quality. ② The design balances the differential amplifier circuit by grounding this volume to -GND via 10KΩ to 5KΩ and grounding pin 2 to -GND. ③ Therefore, if the input volume is not needed, it is necessary to insert a fixed resistor of 10KΩ to 5KΩ between pin 3 and -GND instead. And so on (from Japan).

Low sound.why?

Yooo... What you have done to "reduce the noise" is that correct? I taught you missed the concept of zobel network..you could have eliminate those noise even before entering the lm386...so correct me pls

How many ohms  is your speaker ?

This is a great informative video. I am just curious, does the impedance of the speaker effect the calculations?

What watt resistors did you use?

what is LM stands for? N in 386 N stands for?

What’s the name of the speaker that you use in this video?

Can i ask with an 8ohm 13W resistor, can I use 5V supply or higher than that please?

I build this amp but it didn´t work.... no sound came out in the loud speeker... the signal was simply too low...

Thanks for the great video. Just out of curiosity, what is the purpose of the 1k resistor at the audio input, what if we don't add these

I think it would probably be fine just don't expect to be able to drive it at full power.

EEVBlog and anyone who uploads a cat video

Afrotechmods More cat on your videos please. I love cats

@seniorcafe You could suggest it to him, but he's a pretty stubborn guy(in my opinion) and his current viewers (which I'm sure he thinks are sufficient) are probably more interested in the really long videos in which you don't learn much about the technical side. I personally agree with you, but I don't think it's gonna come from Dave. I think I've heard a few other people comment that he should work on personal projects as well.

EEVBlog, Techmoan, 8-Bit Guy, mikeselectricstuff, MrCarlsonsLab, Afrotechmods, CrazyRussianHacker, colinfurze, GMM, thebenheckshow  and you... :)

Dont forget AvE, The Post apocalyptic Inventor, Great Scott, Cody's Lab, Laura Kampf and so much more!

Applied Science!

i would sign this and add Andreas Spiess and GreatScott!

w2aew, AvE, Engineering Explained

no love for cute bat videos?

I have so many Canadian youtube electonics and science channels on my feed it's crazy.  Afrotechmods, AvE, Peter Brockie, Electroboom, Tesla500, ElectronUpdate for electronics and NileRed and Nurdrage for chemistry.

+IRFZ44 No beeps for you!

So you know of GreatScott! or Ben Heck?

5Beans6
Scott has the nicest writing I have ever seen outside of a text book.

+Dark Alchemist yes, his handwriting is exzellent! i watch Great Scott! for years, but i think his videos got to professionell guring the time and got a bit impersonal.

Mike Herbst
I agree and I unsubbed him about six months ago.  I liked how his channel was not how he runs that channel now.

Almost what I have too, and of course cats :)

You can learn a decent amount in 10 minutes but you don't fully understand it. That's why there are still channels that output longer format.

I forgot Marco Reps

You forgot great scott and voltlog. Both great youtubers doing electronics and fun to watch.

what would be the best channel for understanding electronic circuits?? anyone

Jullien illet (with youtube channel of the same name) is pretty good at 
explaining how particular circuits work. He also does some micro 
controller coding etc. A good place to start for a beginner.

:(

I think you will need a high impedance preamp first

good question, did you figure it out?

It isolates the audio channels from each other. Otherwise you would have two output amplifiers from your MP3 player trying to drive each other. It also creates a basic mixer, averaging L + R channels together.

I am a little bit confused. Is it the high pass filter or low pass filter that sends the high frequency sounds to ground???

Great ,  I did it and works perfectly
But if  i want to use a variable resistor what to use ? for volume

I want stereo version

anyone get a commercial from tetronik  that sounded like afrotechmods?

you never explained why the capacitor works to reduce noise

Would that work with a guitar?

You can get 10 of the LM386 chips from Aliexpress for less than a dollar if you're willing to wait 6 weeks for them to show up.

if you wanna make it a guitar amplifier just bridge pin 1 and 8 or put a pot in there, that would be your gain.

what band is that? death? spiritual healing album?

Does this work with microphones?

always find 386 amps are poor for mic input

Eeuuhh
This metal sounds like bieber

What about distortion, linearity, and SNR? Are there any issues with crossover distortion or clipping? Maybe have a sine wave sweep over the audible frequency range, get your (preferably analog) scope into XY mode, and connect Ch A to the output and Ch B to the input and see if you get a straight line over every frequency? And we can't forget to do proper impedance matching with the output! ;)

i did everything right but i dont understand my speaker is so quiet even when i put my phone to maximum

"After I was done being a stripper..."
Really?

Hey love the video, but how would you go about changing the output volume to making it variable? There seems to be no feedback in your circuit, so would there be a simply way to do this, or should I add an another op amp, that could control the gain at the output, then feed that new output to the speaker? Also where did you get that great speaker!

I tried this though a 6ohm 25watt old HI Fi speaker it was pretty good. Does anyone what impedance speakers work best for this amp?I changed the 1000 micro farad cap for a 2200 micro farad just was playing about but for some reason it made less distortion. I also notice that when i changed the 100 cap that sits positive and negative i got less distortion as well.

Could you plug a microphone into this and essentially use this to amplify your voice?

Nice video, i really like your style. Do you know how i can make a volume control for the LM386?

at 4:44 you said rc high pass filter , but from the rc low pass filter video i saw that the resistor is connected to the signal and capacitor to ground , and for an rc high pass filter is capacitor first and resistor to ground, isn't an rc high pass filter supposed to attenuate the low frequencies?? and the rc low pass filter is the one that attenuates high frequencies ? i just seem to confuse this whole thing, would some one explain it to me ? , 
thanks

This is 2 years late, but I also noticed he said something about sending high pass to ground and associated that with a high pass filter. I think he did actually meant a low pass filter because we don't want high frequencies out.

if you still need this, a potentiometer as a voltage divider at either the output or input should work

+1, but I think you just use two LM386's

Never seen that before. Please link me if it shows up again?

Yes. It makes a solid simple amp, but it will hardly amplify your guitar. A guitar is not a line level output, so the sound will be very harsh and its volume will depend greatly on your guitars pickups.

I always buy at least 100 of whatever I end up ordering, except for larger components like entire power supplies. It's good to buy in advance even when you don't need them. Assorted resistors and diodes come to mind.

I think you may be expecting a bit much from 6 minute tutorial on an $0.80 IC that is older than most of the audience ;)

Nahhh ;) I have messed with this chip a long time ago as part of a 200-in-1 kit and just wired it based on what seemed intuitive. Connecting the microphone directly between the inverting and noninverting pins, and   a speaker directly to ground on the output. It was horrible, and drained the batteries. I learned that it could run off of depleted batteries better if a capacitor was added in series, something I did by accident. I now know what I did of course, and that I wired it completely wrong but it was fun to mess around with!

Me too

use a 10K potentiometer for adjusting volume. Mid pin is connected to amplifier audio signal input (pin 3 of LM386). Left pin is connected to your audio signal. Right pin is connected to supply ground.

LM386 is best suited to 8 ohm, though it's fine with 6. It might start clipping if you turn it the whole way up with 6 ohm speakers. But you can add a resistor after the volume potentiometer to push the input signal voltage a bit further to mitigate this.

The output capacitor and speaker form a high pass filter. With a 8ohm speaker and 1000uF cap the cutoff point is roughly 20hz, which is the highest you want it to be. Lower is better. With 6ohm and 1000uF you get 26hz, which will cut off a more noticeable amount of bass. With 6ohm and 2200uF the cutoff is 9hz which is much better. Excellent calculator if you wanna have a play around - https://www.v-cap.com/coupling-capacitor-calculator.php

hope this helps! :)

Yee Boi Thanks a lot man i will give that a try, Thanks again

Yee Boi i have a 4ohm speaker :(
can i use a 4 ohm resistor in series to make 8ohms? I'm powering it with 5V dc wall adapter???

Yee Boi thanks a lot dude !

Yes

The volume control of your laptop or phone should be sufficient, but it is also easy to simply use a potentiometer to divide down the signal on the input. Check out my tutorial on voltage dividers for more info.

Thanks!

A bit late. See, high pass filter passes high frequencies. Here it is passing high frequencies to the ground, letting lower frequencies go the other way. The tutorials for low pass and high pass are actually the same thing from different views. In low pass circuit you choose a high frequency cut-off with capacitor and resistor combination and take the lower frequencies to use. In contrast in high pass filter circuit you take a low frequency cut-off combination and take the higher frequencies into use. In both versions you could take the other part of frequencies.

Normally the output of amplifier is in khz frequency let suppose the output is 10khZ
In this case the xc of output capacitor series in speaker will be nearly about  0.15 ohm
And this resistance will be same for dc because signal source and dc are combined grounded then how this capacitor blocks dc

Afro, where you do you get a speaker thats affordable like yours?

okay, now all ive gotta do is build one for left and one for right and put some sort of volume control knob in there somewhere....


where do i stick the volume control knob?

How does that work? How is it possible that manufacturers can write "1000W" on a teeny tiny box with a small speaker and amplifier? It's obviously not true but shouldn't there be some sort of law which prevents them from overadvertising their products?

what about FM trasmitter , do you have any plan?

and also how can make stereo amplifier form it

how much volts capacitors you used in this bro..?

Hi aphrotechmods,
I have a question about this high-pass filter that you implemented at the end of the video.
How does it work, I thought that a low-pass filter usually consisted of a resistor in series followed by a capacitor in parallel leading to ground, however in this schematic you seem to use a resistor and a capacitor both in parallel to the signal. How does this filter out the high frequencies? Because it has a resistance value of 10 ohms regardless of the frequency.

Hey afrotechmods! I had a quick question... Could we use a 10W speaker with the same circuit?

Doesnt work with Iphone 7!!!!

How do I increase/lower the gain with the LM386? i.e. how do I make the amplification amount of the speaker more or less?

can you please explain if i want to add VOL: control pot which value and how it's done.

what about stereo? would you have to do the whole circuit again for the other side?

Can u tell me a circuit that removes noise from the input signal and obtains a rectangular pulse in the output ?

How could I split the final signal and send it to a speaker while also sending it to something that could display the sound waves on an LCD? is there a better way to display the sound waves than an LCD?

could i make this work with a set of stereo speakers instead of averaging the waveforms to make it mono? if so, how would that work?

Quick question is there a significant sound improvement if I were to double all the values of all the capacitors used in this circuit? I was told that the higher the capacitor the better the filtering resulting a clearer sound.

Get a bluetooth module, 2 of these circuits and 2 speakers, and there's your 230$ beatspill.

What is the current draw from the op amp at 9v?

For stereo to mono I just join the two wires together, seems to work fine but why should I use a 1k resistor?

"resistance will be same for dc" It won't, the DC component of the signal will charge up the capacitor and from then on all the current will be from AC.Think of it as a sum of two waves: DC is zero frequency (so the capacitor has infinitely high impedance) and high frequency you want to pass (cap has lower impedance)

dumpster diving and cheap electronics is the way to go if you want cheap speakers

From the LM386 datasheet:

"To make the LM386 a more versatile amplifier, two pins (1
and 8) are provided for gain control. With pins 1 and 8 open
the 1.35 kΩ resistor sets the gain at 20 (26 dB). If a capacitor
is put from pin 1 to 8, bypassing the 1.35 kΩ resistor, the
gain will go up to 200 (46 dB). If a resistor is placed in series
with the capacitor, the gain can be set to any value from 20
to 200. Gain control can also be done by capacitively coupling
a resistor (or FET) from pin 1 to ground."

just stick it between the audio input and the capacitor to the amplifier.
if you want to use 2 at once, get a stereo potentiometer.

Well. There is a problem. Telling you how to make a circuit is one thing (very simple). Make you understand in a level of how it actually work is something else. I fell FM transmitter is a bit complicated.

Just build the circuit 2 times, one for left and one for right.

the 2 small capacitors(100uF) are 25V

Realize that the small 0.1uF capacitor will have a small amount of internal series resistance, so implicitly it is an RC high pass filter!

Ah okay, thanks for responding!

Sure! You just won't be able to drive the speaker to the max it can handle

You can add a bluetooth receiver that connects to that 3.5mm jack and you got yourself a bluetooth speaker.

Gg

Look at page 10 and 13 of the datasheet https://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/lm386.pdf  do you see how between pin 1 and 8 they add a resistor and a capacitor?

 @Afrotechmods  great thank you so it looks like the minimum gain is 20 and you don’t need to add any resistors or caps to pin 1 or 8 to get that gain?

Late answer, put pin 3 of lm386 to pin 2 (output) of potentiometer. Then pin 1 (vcc) of potentiometer to the mono connection of the audio channel input. And lastly pin 3 (ground) of potentiometer to ground of the circuit.

If the volume adjuster is backward when turning the pot, just flip the connection of vcc and ground of the potentiometer. Hope this help.

Yes. There are of course other amp ICs that have stereo built in.

A hysteretic comparator?

It would be really complicated to program an LCD to detect frequencies and display graphics

build the circuit 2 times and use one for the left and one for the right channel.

If you increase the value of 1000uF before the speaker it'll improve bass. This will lower the cutoff frequency for the filter that the speaker and capacitor create. Have a look at the low and high pass filter videos afrotechmods did.

Yup. Pretty much.

Part of the reason for the price though is the fact that the speakers are designed for full audio range, which isn't the easiest thing to make and because the enclosure is designed to resonate and acoustically amplify the sound so that you get a good sound out of it. That being said though, Beats are very overpriced for how they sound. Bose speakers for example are actually a little more expensive in some cases but sound exponentially better as they have a better overall design and don't have or need the "Beats by Dre" name in order to sell units.

About 125mA. It's the same at 12V.

To ensure that the current going to the chip from each channel is balanced, may also be a requirement to limit the current going to the chip, I haven't read the datasheet.

So when you use the LM386N-4 doesn't that mean it ought to be hooked up to a speaker with a load impedance of 32 Ohms? If I were to use a Visaton FR58/8 with a load impedance of 8 ohms for instance wouldn't I be better off with a LM386N-1 or LM386L in my case because it is what I have available but it has the same values as a LM386N-1. Planning on building a little mono internet radio and was wondering if someone could help me out on this question. Cheers! Nice video though.

Sir, how do i controll the gain?

and is it possible to controll the gain of multiple op amp with different input and different output with one potentiometer?

Can we use a small mic at the input

Hi sir What value of the ceramic capacitor that you used in this video??? Thank you for your answer!!

Sir can i use two ic chips for stereo

my ic is geting hot very fast. any idea what it can be?

If the noise is around 2.2MHz, how do we hear it? It is beyond the max audible frequency.

if I want to put some volume pot, where I supossed to wire it? and is 10K Log Potentiometer work?

Could I hypothetically create a stereo speaker setup if I duplicate this circuit to the output of the right and left outputs of a stereo 1/4" jack?

I made it..
Volume too high..
Buzz sound (noise) high..
100nf capacitor not available so used 2.2nf
You can check here
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Q2oKaroRnl3TGC2O5q4BeSDz59p1YY9Z/view?usp=drivesdk

Can we connect a microphone with this amplifier?

Hi Afrotechmods, 

will this work for a 1W,  8 ohm speaker?

Can this circuit be used or modified  for stereo output?

Could you please explain to me how to physically connect all the grounds together? I'm a newbie, and can't understand which wires go together, even when looking at the breadboard. It's very confusing.

Can I use it as a small guitar amp?

Is there any way you can tap into your phones power to power the amp?

Sir I have tried making this circuit but I keep running into one problem the capacitor between pin5 and ground is 104(100 nf) this doesn't remove the noise for me

Can anyone tell me, how the OpAmp can be in Comperator Configuration and this still works?

Three point five millymeter ?
Will the LM386 work with standard 1/8' plugs for input?
I have lots of them. and things to plug them in to.

Hi I just built this project and it worked just as planned. However I do have one question, would it be possible to convert the mono signal back to stereo?

The N-4 is just a higher voltage chip. You don't have to use a 32R speaker. This isn't a hifi amp by any means so just use whichever LM386 works best with your power source. The chip you have should be fine for your project.

You control the gain with pin 1 and 8 and a capacitor+potentiometer.

No, you would need a preamp circuit first. Check out my video about operational amplifiers for an example.

If you still need this, it is 100n f

If this information is still useful in any way, yes, yes you can, you can effectively make 2 of these circuits and just use L for one and R the other

you wired it up wrongly i guess.
get a new one and check your wiring.

Excellent question. So yes, obviously you cannot hear the 2.2MHz itself. The problem is that this large 2.2MHz component was, at times, messing with the amplifier's feedback loop for the lower frequencies. And the result of this was clearly audible distorted audio and you can even see it on the oscilloscope plot.

get a 22k stereo potentiometer if you want to use it for stereo.
otherwise get a 22k mono potentiometer.

Yes! Think of it as dual mono.

Cool cool. Think I'll give this project a shot.

You couldn't use a bare electret mic with this. You'd want a preamp circuit. Check out my operational amplifier tutorial for an example.

yes

Martin Kumar hi tum kaha se lm386-4 laate ho in India

Well in the breadboard there's 2 lines at right one positive and one negative and the same in the other side to connect ground simply connect the right ground to the left ground

yes.

Not easily no

Something on top of my head: Use USB OTG cable and connect the +5V from the cable to the amp Vin. I don't know if it will be powerful enough though

Try a different high pass filter

Afrotechmods can you suggest a value

It looks like it's in comparator configuration but in fact there are gain resistors inside the chip and it is operating in negative feedback mode.

Afrotechmods Thank you for the quick response ;)

Should work fine.

Nope. You'd need to make 2 of these amplifiers and do dual mono, or you could look for a new stereo amplifier circuit.

 @Afrotechmods  Thanks for the quick response, I appreciate it! I also thought of making the dual mono but was just wondering if it was possible to convert back, its a great learning experience for sure. Thanks again!

one question sir in many schematics of lm386 and the data sheet of the IC a capacitor is connected b/w pin 1 and 8 to set the gain what is the gain without it.

Is there any way to do it with an uA741 AO?

Can you use an nte823 with this. I checked their datasheets and they are equivalents but i built your circuit and it buzzed A LOT. I don't know if it just the chip or something. Any help? Thanks!

why Bro is Being Striper

Will it work for 741 op amp?

Will the circuit be different for a 8 ohms speaker than a 16 ohms one ? why ? thank you

sounds like "nilered" voice

Can this be replaced by LM-741?

HI! I am looking for a small amp for a project to amplify an acoustic guitar pick up and I think this will work, I just have 2 questions: 
1)What kind of speaker is that that you are using? (power and impedance, or if you have the link to buy it, that would be great).
2) If i wanted 2 speakers, not necessarily stereo but just 2 mono speakers, what adjustment would I have to do? 
Thanks!

Can I use this like a small pre-amp?

sir! what is the name of this board pls!

hey  afrotechmods , whats the song at 5:01 !! i know it's not darude sandstorm -_-

can this power up a 8ohm 25w speaker?

thanks for thai sub lol, "คูณสามารถซื้อได้จาก ES หรือ NPE...20บาท"  555555+

Hey! Does this works for electric guitars?

Hello can I get the specifications of speaker? I have 8ohm 2.5 W speaker rn is it good enough?

Narration by Birdperson!

does it matter to use 3 watt speaker or i m gone need do use only 1watt?

Eh, the sound demonstration clearly shows the most important caveat of such "simple" design (that uses a weak power source and a questionable speaker too): the complete lack of bass. You just simply can't get it without a good power supply and good speakers.

Can u share circuit diagram

The default gain is 20 which is perfect for phones and laptops but if you put a capacitor between pins 1 and 8 the gain becomes 200.

+Afrotechmods thanks sir and a great tutorial please keep making such videos

No. Not even close.

@Afrotechmods Never mind. The buzzing was due to the fact that I was using a portable radio instead of a music player. As soon as I plugged it into my iPhone, it worked perfectly. Your circuit has been the only audio amplifier circuit that I've tried and that worked. Thank you very much!

No. The 741 is crap.

6 years late, but it's still the same like in the video. BUT i do only tried using 8 ohms speaker, haven't use the 16 ohms one

Did you try it? I only have LM741

carlos arteaga ....I'm working on something similar....except i wanna use a surface exciter instead of a speaker and install it intothe acoustic guitar. Did you ever finish your project?....was it loud enough?

An LM386 wouldn't be the best IC for that but yeah it could work

Afrotechmods Thanks!

it is a breadboard

Actually it is darude sandstorm, it just sounds a bit different because it's being played out of a speaker and then re-recorded

Yes but you won't be able to drive it at full power.

Thanks for the reply! I tried this circuit and it works pretty well! I removed the 9nF capacitor and put it in the 8th pin in the circuit and it reduced the noise.

Sir are you alright

Yes, it does

yeah that'll be fine

I am pleased that you enjoy the narration of this topic.

You can use a 300 watt speaker if you want, the only limitation is you can't drive the speaker at its maximum power level.

Afrotechmods thanks very interesting video and i ll try this

http://bit.ly/2kep7h9

Thnks

Will 12v do??

lm3886 ftw xd more power = better

Can i use IC 741 to amplify audio?

But... aren’t you on the internet?

My amp stereo speaker dosent produce sound when i play a music using my phone or anything, the song plays from my phone instead. And makes continuous weird fart noise/distorted noise. I'm powering it with a 5V wall charger as power supply. Speaker is of 4ohm. Pls help...anyone???????

This chip is now obsolete, sad. I just bought 30 pcs for stock.

does it matter to use 3 watt speaker or i m gone need do use only 1watt?

It didn't work!  I'm so disappointed!

You are the da Vinci in our Time!  Would pay a ton of gold to have u as my private tutor

I don't wanna be a stripper anymore

This ic is the cheapest item ever and can perform with high fidelity I tried it many times.

Neat! It would be nice to incorporate this into a bluetooth boom box!

What means the vcc?

Done being a stripper

After i was done being a stripper

After i was done being a stripper....

Regrettably, this is dated information. The LM386 is being phased out. They are much harder to find now, and they are being hoarded while their price is rising. This video should be updated using the LM386 replacement or alternative. I am unhappy because it was a relatively easy chip to learn.

question, I made this circuit and it works really nicely, but there is a 5khz sound always in the background how do I get rid of this? the only difference that I made is I'm using two speakers with audio crossover and I have a capacitor after the stereo to mono conversion.

You have to make sure to bypass the power supply as well, best thing to do is put a .1uf also between the power and ground pins directly by the chip (a bypass capacitor)

IMO LM386 doesn't sound very good. I grabbed an NTE740A the other day, it puts out 2Watts and is much more suitable for speakers. I still tend the think the LM386 is better for headphones

I’m curious if one should change the 1000uF cap from electrolytic to a ceramic or something like that. Just curious because I heard electrolytic capacitors don’t like AC signal.

Amey deshpande 
Of course it can

You won't be able to drive a speaker with it.

 @Afrotechmods  ok 👍
thank you for your reply 👍

The 5v wall charger might have a ton of noise on the ground line of the supply. Try a cleaner power supply like a battery and see if you have the same problem.

+Afrotechmods oh ok i would try using battery, but what about the music plays from my phone itself instead of amp stereo speaker even when connected to jack??? afro pls help????

4 ohms would overload the amp and it will get hot and burn out. the 4 ohm resistor in series with the speaker will give the correct load of 8 ohms. The speaker will use half the power and make sound with it, the resistor will take the other half of the power and make heat with it.

as long as its higher than 1 watt and 8 ohms or higher you will be fine running upto about 12v.

+Sirus but what if i have 4ohms speaker?

Justin Stuart the IC may burn

you can put a resistor of 4 ohm in series with the speaker to give you 8 ohms total. you can put a bunch of 9 x 37 ohm resistors in parallel to give you close to 4 ohms, if you don't have any power resistors that will handle a watt

Sirus 1watt

Sorry if it sounds dumb but, what is the effect of using a resistor to make it 8ohm, is it bad if i used 4ohm speakers alone? I'm a noob at it lol...

I accept fair maidens as currency. I will also settle for reasonably attractive donkeys.

A donkey, a donkey, my kingdom for a donkey!

vcc is basically the positive power supply connection

Thanks​ @Afrotechmods 

You won't be able to find a 1000uF ceramic cap. In this particular circuit an electrolytic cap will be a good choice.

Eu não sei onde esse vídeo ensinou a fazer um amplificador de áudio, affs.

is this a project on non inverting summing amplifier?

What to do if i want to use sd card or pen drive

Loved the stripper joke

Also putting a 100 uf cap between audio output and ground makes it sound amazing

1 dollar a chip? lmao, you can get 20 for that price on ebay

can substitute a mic for the 3.5mm jack?

can i have vietnamese subtitles for the video?

can i use SMD electric microphone instead of mobile

Put a point 1 microfarad capacitor in parallel with output so get rid of the 100 microfarad capacitor?

Sir how to make a public address system.Eg which is used by the lecturer in classroom. Sir please give answer

Please make mic to speaker live amplifier

how did you start as a youtuber? tell me..

3$??? I got a PCB and parts for 1.50$,

When the shitty noise came out I thought it was modern music.

It doesn't do summing

If you still need this information, you need a mic preamp between the actual electret capsule and this amplifier

