⚡  Get your tools here:
✅ Insulated gloves: https://amzn.to/48nPJ87
✅ Safety Goggles: https://amzn.to/3t4Db5j
✅ Discharge Pen: https://amzn.to/3sW9DqO
✅ Insulated Screwdriver: https://amzn.to/3Pv9nGW
✅ 9V Battery: https://amzn.to/3rh2a4Y
✅ Multimeter: https://kaiweets.com/collections/multimeter/products/kaiweets-ht118a-digital-ac-dc-multimeter-trms-6000-counts?sca_ref=3038512.aNZmXCyLlk

Is it possible to show how to discharge a capacitor while on PCB

What an awful, confusing, badly illustrated and potentially dangerous video!

2:08 This is why I am here

How can you discharge a cap in a circuit

Very detailed how to 😊     ... until the very  end 😢

❤

The proper way to discharge a capacitor os with a high load resistor

I bought a camera capacitor discharge tool at Amazon .

Good video.

How do u discharge a capacitor from welding machine ?

How presumptuous to ask people to like your video "before it starts"  !!!!

At a ham radio junk sale in Eastbourne in the eighties, a box of HUGE old vintage caps came up for auction (they were about 6” long and 2” diameter). Someone in the audience asked if they had been discharged: A guy gingerly selected one, then took a damp paperback book and bridged the terminals with it. Massive sizzle and a loud bang, accompanied by lots of magic smoke. Ever since that time, I’ve been VERY wary of big Cs…

If you ask me to like a video before the video even begins, I will automatically dislike it. This video made me feel very satisfied with that policy the longer it went.. I'm halfway through and it stop hasn't gotten to the point..

I thought only electrolytic capacitors had positive and negative leads. ???

seems like after all your strongr than average safety advice, you suddenly changed to the old insulated screwdriver technique, that is thought to be risky, &&& that your video title picture has an ‘X’ mark sayng bad idea.. which of your 2 contradicting peices of advices do U advise?.. hmnnn ?🤔

Hi, what is that adapter you used to plug that cap into your meter, thanks?

At 2:43, it shows the + lead of the DMM attached to the - lead of the capacitor and the - lead of the DMM attached to the + lead of the capacitor.  This appears to be a polarized capacitor since the graphic of the capacitor has the stripe (with the - ) indicating which lead is negative.  This appears to indicate the DMM is incorrectly connected to the capacitor.  Am I misunderstanding how this works? Thank you in advance!

Please make a vid how to change AC to DC please i need that

does a capacitor need to be charged to check it on the meter?

Glad you found it helpful!

☝️size cN B DCVng, I’ve heard scary stories of smaller than most capacitors(that had highr voltage# than biger ones)..  but then, while pondering all this, I was moving a charged cR batRE & in a moment of dumness said wat the heck & grabd each terminal with 1 hand, luckily nothing..  probley cause I heard if it’s under 25 volts it’s safe… bt NEhU, about a 1000 Xs as big yet less dangerous in this case- hence the dOnt judge by size advIc😒.

Never trust a capacitor. Always discharge it unless you know you just discharged it.

Tantalum caps are also polarized.

I know it's late but a capacitor generates current in the opposite direction to the direction it's charged

Not sure if you still need this but you need a full bridge rectifier circuit which pretty much consists of 4 diodes

I’d look up a diagram online

Yes. Some testers don't have a protection system and the voltage released might burn your tester.

I totally agree! Tool pen is a hundred times better than a screwdriver.

Timestamps:
00:00 Intro
00:43 Safety first
1:04 How does a capacitor work
2:08 How to discharge a capacitor
2:49 How to discharge a capacitor with a screwdriver
3:29 How to charge a capacitor
3:50 How to check capacitor with digital multimeter

For a microwave with power disconnected can you use a multimeter to test the diode in situ without disconnecting or discharging the capacitor ?

Never thought I would walk into the hood and instead of getting robbed I got taught how to discharge a capacitor 
The music man the music lol😊

One time I discharged a capacitor of huge capacitance with a screwdriver. It was terrified for me to see sparks.

Can you make a compilation about capacitor explosion?

im here, cz my capacitor doesn't charging anymore after discharge by screwdriver lmao

Screwdriver method cheaper and easier

blablabla  take old heating bulb, attach two wires - and you have discharging unit.

how many ko is the pen?

"Before you've watched this video and while you have absolutely no information to judge by, please hit that like button" ???

Absolutely!

that resistor is  is better

For safety reason you must always discharge the capacitor

be extremely careful with microwaves, microwave transformers are the object that is the most fatal to hobbyist electricians.

Our mistakes make us better

I will forever start reading the label of the capacitor and check their listed voltages, if they are around three digits long or longer, I will never ever touch that thing ever again 😂

Did you poop your pants?

too bad there’s no such thing as an electrically insulated screwdriver - Y?, the dumness of the insulated tool companies ofcOrs✋

100k is ok

just take old bulb with heater lead. Its not about R, its about having resistor that can withstand surge.

Same reason why dislikes have been disabled on all videos now. If I can't see how many people dislike the video, how can I trust it?

