Video idea, How to isolate circuits. Like when you have an op amp and an oscillator or two oscillators or whatever on the same board with the same power supply. How to get them to play nice with each other.

I've figured out that a diode, and or a capacitor usually works. I've just not seen anyone do videos on how to start putting these things together.

Great vid, can’t wait for part 2 😊

Excellent video!! Thanks a lot

Oh boy now I have to try building up an ab amplifier using a different op amp. Cool video Paul, looking forward to tomorrow.

I thank you for your sharing brother!! Alot.  Good teacher too!

Informative and interesting

Oboy more complicated amplifiers.  😁 I've never been into any kind of audio stuff but this is interesting. Looking forward to tomorrows video!

Thanks

nice lectures please can you do the practical

I believe c2 and Rb are ignored via the ground mode. Is that the case?

Can you recommend me a replacement of IC stk403-130 ?

Did the circuit build video get made? Didn’t see t in your videos, my have missed it.  Also,is there a way to build an affordable 12 v to 12v isolation circuit. Have a few neon lights for my car and the inverters put noise into the electrical system and are audible on the radio.  Thanks and keep up the great work

Can you give me a circuit diagram tda2030

My question.....are C1 and R3 connected in parallal...?

any ic tda class A?...

TDA2030. =TDA2003 =TDA2004.yeS

I can assure you that the IC you have at 1:00 is a clear fake.. Original ones have their pins more thick and the back metal tab is completely different

I think we csn do that.

Thanks man you are awesome

 @learnelectronics  you certainly are!

Great teacher indeed!  And so friendly, or should I say fatherly (uncle'y?)...

I am also interested in the real situation where that amp. is built and tested.

If it works, does it really matter?

learnelectronics it will work.. But you'll not get the full rated output power as the datasheet recommends.. I've experiences with that.. Also you can least expect the over temperature protection circuits to be present  in these fake chips. These fake devices will dissipate large heat and you'll not get that performance as the original ST. ST discontinued many of these TDA products long ago and few sellers online delivers original ones, most of the sellers sell fake Chinese craps

