Although it's a 5 mins video but it explains a lot and what I mean by a lot doesn't just means "a lot" but it means A LOT! Thanks for the Exceptional work, and keep nourishing our minds with that great way of putting up science

Usually I don't comment, but you are the only person who has explained this in a way that I enjoy and understand

Searching for animation and till now,  this is the best available video on YouTube

This is the type of content that viewers seek from youtubers. Quality Content!!

No one explained the energy diagram in a way as you explain this
Thanks a lot and keep it up

thank you. this animation helped me understand what my teacher couldn't through a powerpoint slide

This is the COMPLETE explanation.
Perfect. Good job!

The question is why do course staff, who are paid for the job, fail to explain this concept as clearly and simply as this Youtube channel does!

Thank you for the video!

It was just awesome , down to last word, perfecct.

even the concept which i didnt even had an idea in one hour explanation, i understood here after 5 minutes

thank u because of you i finally understood energy band diagram of pn junction

very good explanation!

As a material and nano tech engineer it helped a lot thank you so much! This 5 min video was definitely more effective than the 2 hours lesson I took at uni

after watching many videos, this series on transistor fundamentals is the best so far. The animation is clear and the speaker makes perfect sense. Subscribed.

this video is heavily underrated

Thx sir, i would search across the internet for an easy explanation but for an 1h i could only find YOU<

Thanks, you just gave my the right visual hint to understand band barrier between different region of materials.

Great video!

Thanks for making the concept so clear and elegant your way of teaching is really impressive and far reaching

amazing explanation that I've ever seen before. irreproachable scientific content. Well done!

I like your profile pic xD

1:06 1:13

Glad you liked it

Are u from fbise?

init

true true
on the course teachers' defense, they rly cannot explain the topics with the help of such intuitive animations shown in youtube videos
but still overall I feel youtube just does a better job at teaching us lol

You probably gave no indication that you didn't understand the material. It's adult learning, so if you don't get the most out of what you are paying for then that's on you. Secondly, there is a bit of confirmation bias in your statement. You have obviously received several hours of face to face tuition and have tried to read your course material in your own time, yet you give 100% of the credit to this video only? Do you think you would have understood everything about diodes if you had just watched this once?

 @TheEsky18  so true

the best explanation, was looking for it for some time

Great explanation! Thank You so much!!! Love from Brazil!

I love the way you explain and animation, it's very easy to understand

Excellent. Clear and concise. Thank you.

Thank you so much. This video explained the formation of the depletion region than most I've watched.

I love this channel. Every time I feel my brain frying while studying I come here and understand it within minutes. Just excellent.

Using the band diagram to explain the equilibrium state is very impressive in regard to the traditional built-in potential explanation.

waiting for the bread to pop out !!

The best video I find about diodes and pn junction. Learned a lot ❤️

This series is amazing. I have been looking for a good source to learn about electronics and I've found it, without a doubt.

thank you for this great explanation! This makes so much more sense now and i cant believe i actually remembered all that about the lower energy levels. i remember doing that in chem a few years back and i thought i would never need it lol. crazy how theres so many little things that seem insignificant when doing them but are CRUCIAL in many applications and we wouldnt have any tech like what we have today without understanding them.

super helpful thank you so much!!

Extra ordinary content. Thank you very much for sharing.

Excellent video and easy tounderstand, well done 👏

Thanks. Love from India

Such a amazing video 😍 helpful

Great explanation of energy diagrams. It could be good if you could explain energy and potential diagrams of bipolar transistor.

Great video, explain a profound theory in a simple language

GREAT EXPLANATION

beautiful English subtitle and animation video, thank you so much teacher .From Viet Nam with love

Awesome, glad it was helpful!

yes ,he is an inspiration for me ...thank you

This was so helpful. I have my physics full syllabus grade 12 exam tomorrow and God semiconductors were one of the most confusing chapters...That is until I watched your videos
 Thank you so much. The concept is crystal clear

Its awesome.love from lahore ,pakistan.you are  included in my list of best teachers.❤

this is so helpful! thank God I found it haha more videos to come :)

great explanation! thank you

great explanation

Very informative , thank you.

Thank you soo much

Thanks so much man

too dope too good well done .

Great explanation, thanks for helping me to envisage it.

Amazing channel :) thank u so much.

We hope this video was helpful!  We have a couple more videos on how diodes/PN junctions work when forward and reverse biased, we recommend you go check them out as well.  We also have a wide variety of other tutorials on semiconductors, so explore our channel if you have any more questions on this topic.  If helpful, we have the transcript for this video on our website here:  https://www.circuitbread.com/tutorials/how-does-a-diode-work-part-1-the-pn-junction  Take care!

Great video thank you

this is gold

Finally understandable english!

Great explanation....really !!!

Thanks a lot ✅

This was by far the most intuitive explanation of band diagram of pn junction I have seen. Thanks brother.
Just a minor nit pick in the animation
It would have been more clearer to specify that movable charge carriers cross the pn junction and ionize the fixed carriers on the other side
So the depletion region is filled with ionize fixed carriers but you showed that carriers were moving during the formation of depletion region, which I guess shouldn't happen in reality
But regardless this was a fantastic video thanks

like the physics with your and l love your thanky for the fabulous video❤❤

Sir, the depletion region consist of electrons of n region toward p side and holes of p region towards n side

you are the best thnx

Great understandable explanation❤

Wow brilliant, thanks for this fantastic video, first time I actually understand how diodes actually work!

والله ودي اجيك البيت اسلمك اللايك شخصيا 🤍

Thank you for this clear explanation. Nam professor nim kaalu kelage thurbeku.

This is so far the best explanation for PN Junction for me

Thankkss really 
I have exam after 1 hour

I read it in abook  school
I understood superficially, but I didn't really understand exactly how it happened

It was helpful basic electronics tutorial I even seen

Excellent

Finallly you helped me understanding this topic. Really thank you! Other websites make it so difficult.

Thank you thats help alot

شيخلصني من الفيزياء.🌚💔

Currently doing a Bachelors degree in mechanical engineering and have come across this… my mind = boggled

Why i didn't find this video earlier 
U r doing great wrk
I appreciate it too much

Tq so much

thank you

thanks

it is simply perfect I was reading slide almost 40 mins but couldn't understand anything about concept until watch this 5 minutes video.Thank you <3

oh my god
good englis !

How does the width of the depletion region increase and decrease

Awesome!

Awesome, great to hear!

Thanks so much for the feedback!! Check out our site CircuitBread.com for all of our tutorials plus tools, an equation library, and more! 😎

You're welcome, I'm glad it helped!

Thanks for your feedback, we really appreciate it!

Glad it helped!

wow

Thanks for the awesome animation and explanation! Wouldn't you say that the electrons that lose energy and recombine actually make up the depletion region? In your animation, the depletion region increases but the electrons in the valence band remain outside of it. Thanks for your answer!

my uni cant explain this at all, have to come to your vids to properly understand it. Thanks

superb explanation

How do you measure the energy of electrons in these bands?

Moj kar du

❤

Thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks thanks
That was very helpful 💕💕💕

The best explanation for pn junction diode. Hey everyone, I wanted to praise CircuitBread for creating an incredibly helpful video. The content was so informative and well-explained. I'm sure it helped many others as well. Thank you for taking the time to share your knowledge and expertise!.

First, let me thank you for the good videos. But in this one, I wonder if it's factually correct. What I have in mind specifically is the energy diagrams at 2:30. There is not enough space to explain in detail but in a nutshell: the valence band of the p-region can be above or below of valence band of the n-region, depending on used materials. Take for example P atom with electron configuration [Ne]3s^2 3p^2 => 5 electrons with principal quantum number = 3 vs B atom (you named it as p-type impurity)  with [He] 2s^2 2p^1 => 3 electrons with PQN=2. So electrons in the B valence shell have even lower energy than those in P. Ga or In atoms would work (see periodic table).
Second and more importantly - when elections recombine on PN junctions the electron energy needed to escape from P atom DOES NOT change. Bands are not moving anywhere contrary to your statement in  3:41. These are still the same atoms. P atoms further in the n-region are willing to give up the extra electron same as before. These may either recombine with holes in the p-region closer to the PN junction (causing hole current) or may try to penetrate to n-region and recombine with the n-region hole. 
The only problem is really that there is already a barrier of earlier recombined negative ions of B/Ga/In atoms. These exert a repelling force on free electrons coming from the n-region according to Culomb's law (as you correctly explain in 2:00).
In a nutshell to understand PN junction it's critical to understand 2 distinct forces - 1) Culomb's law and 2) the proclivity of electrons to fill the atom valence shell in some patterns which is key for understanding chemical bondings, the periodic table, and chemical element properties.   
Also, I think there is no conduction band but rather conduction space simply for all electrons with enough energy to escape the atoms. So there is always a "conduction band" overlap and an electron excited enough can always go anywhere (you only need to heat things up enough).  And of course, energy comes in quantum so the conduction space is not actually continual but discrete, but it's possibly not important here. 

At least that's how I understand it, which also may or may not be correct. :)

Sir, thank you so much for making this video. It is extremely helpful and easy to understand! The textbook made me wish I would rather have my brains blown off😅😄😄😄

Pls put video for  n type solar cell working

Wow. This was so helpful. I wish you'd make a video on the applications of pn junction especial rectifiers
Your videos just make it so much easier to understand ❤

Thank you for these lectures, it is great to have multiple sources of information, but it is still a confusing topic.

so why aren't those negative charges (electrons) change places with positively charged... what exactly? Ions? holse?

Hi. Nice animation. Which software did you use to create it? Overall, nice video!

"the trivalent atom has lower force in the talk is wrong. the Born nucler core has strong force becuase the out layer electron is more close to the core.

thank you for this animation. drifting of the positive charge from p to n junction has not been shown does it not occur explain please

3 ثانوي 2025

To understand the diode, you have to understand the PN junction. 
To understand the PN junction, you have to understand what an impurity atom, pentavalent, and trivalent is. 
You also have to figure out what he means by "doping". 
If you don't understand these things, you won't even get past the I N T R O D U C T I O N.

How does the depletion layer get charge ?when n and p recombine,will there be charge

Happy to help!

Thanks!

You're welcome 😀

Thanks. Glad it helped!

Well, I'm glad you didn't and that this helped!

We do have a couple videos on diodes (which is just a PN junction) and I've been thinking about perhaps doing a small sub-series as part of our Circuits 101 series about the applications of BJTs (which are NPN or PNP junctions).Thanks for the feedback!

can you explain reverse recovery some time

Hello sir I'm big fan 🙏

Why the energy of conduction band and valance band  in n type semiconductor is slightly lower than those in p type conductor

he look like barry bee benson as a human

ضارب محاضره وهسه فهمت

Still doubt are there in my mind bro

you forgot to mention that the holes from the p type semiconductor diffuse to the N type semiconductor the same mechanism as the electrons diffuse towards the p type semiconductor.
but overall video is amazing, thank you.

sir, Could you expain why PN is called minority device? And how MCLT affect device. Thanks a lot~

Why electron lose energy after moving to the conduction band of p junction and fall to the Valence band of p junction

Why when the depletion area expands, the energy level of conduction and valence decreases in n region, "energy level  or energy band of solid should be constant"

I wonder why just free electrons in N type move to + ions in depletion region. It is understandable that negative ions push them but also positive ones pull them? Cant they just go for positive ions

Does active region and depletion region are same in LED? IF no what is the difference please explain

1:01

طلاب سادس ٢٠٢٥

Why is the Valenzband empty? dont we need to fill lower states with electrons first ?

i have a question what is thee theory about reduce depletion width

Out of all the videos I’ve seen , this is by far the best ! Thank you so much sir 👍🏻

Best video👍

Hello, I'm a bit confused by the animation. when  the free electrons go over to the p-site, you would think that the result would be a neutral charged atom at the N-site, but instead it becomes a positive charged hole?

The video would have been better if you had used simpler words. I had to look up valence, trivalent, and conduction band

Thanks Utkarsh!

اني هم

Very true, thanks for the feedback!

Thanks for the feedback!

 @CircuitBread  It's so helpful for me <3 Great explanation

 @CircuitBread  I'm waiting for videos: forward bias, reverse bias

I guess it is because it are mostly neutral molecules from the n-site that will lose an electron?

No. The n-type doping element has an extra electron compared to silicon, but also an extra proton. So the material is not charged negative at all.

So the depletion is essentially the degradation of the materials?  Am i getting that right.  Because it's electrons become excited and flow out of the material when the voltage is applied though heat (sunlight)

I'm talking about solar panels here, but the concept remains the same through diodes.  LEDs last a super long time because the material is so much better at limiting the amount of electrons that can flow out of the depletion area in the form of light photons.

 Semiconductors are cool 🤓.  From this video I have learned that an LED is basically the reverse of a solar panel

so a diode allows current to pass through when activated Like a gate.  so why wouldnt use a mosfat instead because a mosfat also allows current to go through when activated.

Can you kindly explain the reason why p side energy levels are made higher and in n-side they are made lower. Also why in the state of equilibrium holes and electron Fermi level align at same position in order to achieve equilibrium. Also as holes and electron which flow are actually in bond with the atom, so hows does when they are in contact, what provides them energy that electrons move and fill the vacant charges in p side leaving a hole or vacant side in n side.. In many texts i have seen (but still confused) that they say, electron are near conduction band so as electron moves they actually decreases the amount of Fermi level in n side due to vacancy and increases the Fermi level o p side... but the logic that Fermi level will align finally for both p and n side, i am unsatisfied with it...Some says as depletion region is formed so why further movement of electron and holes do not occur that electron may go to conduction band of p region. Sorry a bit long query and may be dumb question, but please do clarify this and hope you reply to me. Also you said that electron coming from n type to p type during diffusion will fall back to valance band of p region. How can you represent this situation in a pn semiconductor. is it that the electron recombine with the immobile ion created in p region or what.

Hi, thanks for the interesting and instructive video, but one thing I don't understand is why we can't disconnect these semiconductors from each other.
Thank you!!

Sir I did not get the points 2:43 can you explain for me ?

Why dont the electrons in the n-type move into their the depletion zone from their side ? they have a sea of positive charges to the left and a sea of negative charges to the right. I get why they dont cross they boundary this makes sense to require some energy , but why dont they just move into the depletion zone. I understand that there is an electrostatic field that points to the left but i dont understand why this works out when i imagine an electron that is near the edge of the depletion region from the right , naturally the forces would push it into the depletion region

@1:00

:trophy-yellow-smiling:

Nice work,,. Btw The free electrons diffusing through the depletion region from n region rapidly lose energy...
What makes them lose energy ?

سادس احيائي دور ثاني 
الثنائي البلوري 🤯

Why does the P region create a line of negative charges, and the N region create a line of positive charges? And why are those charge carriers "depleted" near the PN junction? 

You would expect electron diffusion to balance out the charges in the whole area and be one object, not become even more separate.

Is this how the brain works?

please explain how the energy band formed

can you post a video in which you explain the solar cell working principle, please.

Electrostatics and circuits belong to one science not two. For a unified approach to learning Current and the process of conduction watch these two videos i. https://youtu.be/REsWdd76qxc and 
ii. https://youtu.be/8BQM_xw2Rfo 
Also, in the textbooks referred in the last frame of video i you will find descriptions of the operation of resistors, capacitors and inductors using this approach which makes it easier to understand.
There are also chapters in the textbook references which explain the operation of diodes and transistors using the unified approach.

nice video but at 1:11 electorns filling the holes shown as they stay as negative charges. As I read in a book , they neurtalize each other and some majority carriers holes and electrons are lost in this process. How negative charges exist in is because holes leave behind electrons when they diffuse throught, similar to electrons leaving out holes behind them.

Sorry, I don't understand the difference between a hole and a positive charge, hadn't they both lost an electron?

Why diode doesnt emits light as compared to LED

the minority carriers do not  recombine with majority carriers during the forward bias operation, fyi, there is no depletion region expansion, only contraction.... the final parts of video seems inaccurate to me

What...

Thanks for the question!  Do you mean, why we have to have the two different doping regions?  If you have just a p-doped region or an n-doped region by themselves, they're just a piece of material that doesn't conduct particularly well.  It's when they're put together that the magic (or science) really happens!  If you're not familiar with the background on doping, I recommend starting at the beginning of our Semiconductor Basics playlist: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLfYdTiQCV_p7sDswtLZKK43BWOd2mTmHC

 @CircuitBread  Thank you for the answer, I will definitely start watching.
I worded my question incorrectly.
I just can't understand the Seebeck effect.
How does it happen?

Hi Roshan, my understanding is that the electron loses that energy in the process of overcoming the depletion region, which is acting as a barrier.  In other words, it uses that energy just in the process of getting to the other side.

Man... Google Translate was useless on this one.  I hope all is well!

 @CircuitBread  It's Really A useful video man finaly i understand the diode thanks mister

No idea, but I highly doubt it.

Oh, that's a challenge, as it is heavily based in a chemistry background and isn't something I can explain in a comment.  I just put it in my queue to do another video that covers this topic as I do think it's important for a more intuitive understanding of how this all works.

Oh, that would be a good one!  We have the next 6-8 months of content already roughly sketched out, but we're hoping to get Josh a little bit of help soon, if so, hopefully we'll have a bit more bandwidth and we'll try to fit this one in.  Thanks for the feedback!

Excellent. Am waiting for your valuable courses. You're just doing great !

One of the open-source textbooks we have on the site takes this approach and, having learned about both topics separately, it makes sense to me when they're combined in one.  But I don't have any personal experience actually learning it from the ground up that way.  I imagine that it'll really help people who need to know the "why" behind how something works.

Yep, you're exactly right - those electrons combine with the holes and while the electrons still technically exist, they're no longer important to consider as they're now tightly bound to a nucleus and there is no net charge.  This is the tradeoff in trying to show a process visually that can't truly be shown visually in a realistic manner.  If we'd made the hole and electron disappear, that could have been confusing in that people would have thought the electron literally disappeared, when it's really just the charges are canceling each other out.  So we had to make a decision on how we thought it best to represent it.  But it sounds to me like you have a great understanding of the topic, which is great!

 @CircuitBread  thank you for the reply and also great videos !

​ @CircuitBread couldve used a different color,superb video nonetheless

I got (and still get) those confused sometimes, no worries.  The hole is the lack of an electron and, for our purposes, we treat it as mobile.  Even though it is literally just the lack of an electron, it can move around.  A positive charge (a positive ion) is an atom that is missing an electron.  It doesn't move anywhere and it's an entire atom (made up of many neutrons, protons, and electrons) and it just happens to have a positive charge because one of its electrons is missing.  Does that clarify things?

 @CircuitBread  this helped me immensely, thank you! :) This means that, when electrons jump from the n-type part to the p-type part to fill the holes, they leave a positive charge (not a hole) behind, even though it seems that, by jumping away, the n-type material would get neutral... and same for holes on the p-side, that are filled by electrons! The electrons fill the holes but the "charge doesn't annihilate", because the atoms received a negative electron, so they become anions (negatively charged)...right?

Great question!  It does, actually, sometimes.  Usually in the infrared range.  LEDs are just specially made to emit light of specific wavelengths.

 @CircuitBread  👍

after pentavalent doping the extra electrons goes in conduction band of that semiconductor am i correct?

i understood everything and clear my doubts thanks!

can we refer to this type of attraction (electrostatic) between positive charges and negative charges (ions) as an ionic bond attraction or ionic bond is different from this case?

Wonder who eats these breads 😂

Hi, love your video and the clarity of your explanation. However I'm quite confused as to why the valence band of N type also loses energy, when only the electrons from conductive band cross over to the P type. Shouldn't in that case only the conductive band in N type lose its energy, while the valence band stays the same ?

How come the fermi level is required in a band diagram if you are able to show one here without one, and still get the same point across?

which app did you use for these videos?

Take love from Bangladesh 🇧🇩

So, when does the depletion region starts, when p and n are attach together or when voltage is applied?

I had a question: At the pn junction where there is a layer of +ve and -ve charge opposite each other how is a region of DEPLETED charge carriers created, surely there is a concentration of charge carriers?

great, i still dont understand why is this usefull

Depletion layer has No charge then why u asign it by + & -  charge

I have one question , does the electron only move to p region ? because I heard and read that holes move to n region , i'm a bit confused.

Therefore sir a diode has only one pn junction?

2:28 Why n-type bands are lower than the p-type bands?

why free electrons lose its energy after crossing PN junction and falls into Valence band ?

Sir! As electron is negatively charged and hole is positively charged then after the electron get into  hole  how can there be negative charge left????? Sir please answer

For me. It still doesn't make sense like If atom is in static position. And the only thing actually moving is electron. What will this looks like??? Are there any simulation like this?

Wont the electron leave a hole behind beacuse the electron from the n region migrate to p region
So wont the donor atoms have a hole since it donated one of its electron?

Why don't the negatively charged ions in the depletion layer just spread all over the n region as there are so many holes, instead they just remain alligned towards the center? Vice-versa I have the same question for the positively charged ions of the depletion layer and the remaining free electrons from the p-region..

Sir, My Second Question is why does the  free electrons rapidly lose energy while falling into the holes right after crossing the p-n junction (at 3:26) (I understand WHY it should, because the acceptor energy level is lower than the valence Band obviously, I just don't know what underlying phenomenon makes the electrons lose energy)


And, my 3rd Question is- similarly, what makes the overall energy level of the n region to decrease as soon as a depletion region is created? (at 3:39)

Yep! Excellent to hear.  We do have some other tutorials on doping if necessary but it sounds like you're good to go!

No, they're not an ionic bond, and it's not really an attraction, more just varying energy levels and things naturally wanting to drop energy levels by falling back into a hole.  Hopefully that helps!

Fortunately, none of us at CircuitBread are gluten intolerant 😂

Hi Tomas, I'm not quite sure I understand the question.  I think you're asking why, when two materials meet together, both the conduction AND valence bands move when only the electrons cross over to the p-type?  The distance between the bands is set and won't change, they will always shift together and never move closer or farther apart.  However, I don't feel like that is really your question.  Could you clarify the question please?

 @CircuitBread  That is exactly the question I was wondering about, thank you :)

This is just my opinion but I don't think the fermi level is required in all band diagrams but it's important as you get deeper into this topic to understand what it is.  However, if you have a professor that requires it, that's their requirement and needs to be put in there to make them happy.

Hi Ayca!  Our videos guys use the Adobe Suite for video editing.  I think it's Premiere for the video editing itself and Aftereffects for the animations.

A depletion region naturally forms as soon as they're "attached" together but then it gets wider when there is a reverse voltage.  And shrinks when they're forward biased.  Hope that helps!

 @CircuitBread  Yeah it helps, thanks

The trick here is to realize that those charges are immobile ions, not free moving charge carriers (something that is inaccurate in one of our animations, unfortunately). Does that help understanding this?

 @CircuitBread  Yes, it does, thank you, as I understand the depletion region acts as the 'barrier' in diodes.

You know that current flows using the path of least resistance right? Due to the bias (meaning that its easier to travel in one direction) it allows you to control the direction of the current. 

Reasons why this is useful: some electronic devices such as transistors, ICs, LEDs, capacitors etc can only accept current flow in a specific direction

Also you can manipulate current flow to make generators and motors more efficient 

Theres also data transmission applications and safety applications

I’d also like to add… understanding the physical effect of these various doping concentrations help understand behavior device models. Say, your traditional NMOS or PMOS… it’s doped NPN or PNP, in the substrate this actually a bjt to model it’s drain, source,  and bulk. Understanding the current flow based on its physics, it extremely useful especially for circuit design, protection, leakage, and also processes.

Smartphone 😂

He knows it get used in smartphone, hes asking how it is useful for smartphones etc

I can show you an example of why this is useful. In our house, we use AC current, and a lot of things will break in AC, so we need to make this current in CC, by this we use diodes. See, in AC, the current goes from positive to negative, for this don't happen, we use a diode. When the current is negative, the diodo won't let the current flow

It directs current in one direction. Very useful if you get creative

When you want to create a new invention , a higher version of LED lights🤓

Commenting this using the electronic device..LMAO

you used one hand and your smartphone to write this comment…basically thanks to semiconductors and pn junctions. Without these it wouldn’t be possible 😅

No charge means neutral charge (positive charge = negative charge). Both charges magnitude are the same. So no charge doesn't mean there's no charges there but rather charges are equal

Electrons and holes move around in both regions.  The only difference is that there are more holes in the p-region and more electrons in the n-region.  Things like to equalize, so as long as there aren't any external forces, electrons will diffuse into areas with more holes and holes will diffuse into areas with more electrons - this is diffusion current.  Things are complicated by the fact that there are additional forces, both active and inherent in PN junctions, that oppose this motion.

Yes, that is correct, a diode only has one PN junction.

I think it's because the opposite is true for pentavalent atoms compared to trivalent atoms. Pentavalent atoms exert much more force on the outermost electrons, causing the orbits of the outermost electrons to be much lower and nearer to the source. Hence the bands in n type are located at a lower energy level compared to the bands in p type.

 @justinsantos5751  I think so, too! my professor said that "The bigger, pentavalent atoms are "attracting" their outermost electrons more, so their energies are lower, meaning, further from the 0, i.e. the vacuum level."

Hi Aina - we replied to Roshan Bernard with this same question.  The response was, "My understanding is that the electron loses that energy in the process of overcoming the depletion region, which is acting as a barrier.  In other words, it uses that energy just in the process of getting to the other side."  Hope that's helpful!

Hi!  Not sure how I missed this question for so long.  But there shouldn't be a negative charge if the electron and the hole combine.  Could you tell me which time stamp you're referring to?

One of the challenges with showing these things visually is that everything is just representational.  It would be awesome to show it how it actually is but 1) it's hard to show something where you're dealing with literally trillions of atoms and 2) it gets even messier in 3D and 3) in this case, it wouldn't actually demonstrate the concept we're trying to show off here.  For the band gap, there isn't a literal physical gap, it's a gap in the energy levels that the electrons can possess.  It's sort of like saying that an electron can have an energy level of 1 and 2, but then the next level it can have is 5.  So the gap is energy levels 3 and 4.  And while this seems strange at first, remember that in chemistry we learned the different energy states of electrons for individual atoms.  This is just expanding on that. Sadly, this explanation isn't entirely accurate either but will hopefully help establish a conceptual understanding that can be expanded on.

Good question and one that I wish we had explicitly answered when we made this (hindsight is 20/20).  Basically, yes, it will leave a hole behind UNLESS the donor atom had an extra electron in the area any (such as a five electron material as part of a four electron substrate).  But, since it's a circuit and the electrons are flowing around the loop, that hole gets filled as the electrons come around.  So we aren't accumulating holes on that side because they're actively being filled up as well.  I hope that helps!

Oh, I thought we had put a pinned comment to address this mistake.  We have a note in the corner but I guess it's not obvious enough.  Sadly, there's an error in the animation.  Those charged ions (what we put as blue) are fixed, they don't move.  So when they lose their extra holes or electrons, they stay in that spot at the depletion layer, they can't roam around.  I'm sorry for that error and the confusion it caused!

 @CircuitBread  Ah, it's totally fine! Oh Lol, speaking of which, I just found out that "i" marked sidenote xD after you pointed out, and I'm laughing so hard don't know why xD.


Thank you so much, you are so kind and helpful though! <3


Anyways, rest apart, why shouldn't the blue ions move though? 
Edit: I can guess probably it is because atoms can't move in lattice structure...is it so? And if it is, then do the same hold for the negative ions on the other side as well?

Your second question seems nearly philosophical when I read it.   They lose energy because they tend toward the lowest energy level, just like why a marble in a bowl wants to settle in the bottom.  And hitting the bottom of the bowl causes the marble to jump up, just like the insertion of energy (in terms of heat or light) causes the electrons to jump out of the valence band.  Any underlying "why" below that... I don't know!


Let's see if I can do an adequate job explaining the third question.  Even though the overall semiconductor has the same energy, the energy has been redistributed by the movement of electrons and holes within the semiconductor.  As the n region is dropping in energy, the p region is increasing in energy, so that's where you get the balancing.  And it isn't decreasing as soon as the depletion region is created, it's dropping in conjunction with the depletion region being created.  The two things are related.  Hopefully that clarifies things!

Thank you so much, all your answers are really helpful. But I'm  so sorry that I'm having too many questions to bother you again and again, ha ha!
Anyways, so what you just said about why electrons lose energy while falling into holes (you said that it's just a natural tendency to 
have lowest energy) so why does that tendency come visible "after" the electron has crossed the junction? Does it mean that any valence band electron on the n side can just jump down to valence band randomly? If not, then what's making that change of energy drop ONLY after the passing of electrons? (it's fine if you can't give the accurate answer to this, I went pretty deep😅...but if you know any other resource as suggestion where I can find the best but easy explanation, that would be a great bonus favor, too)


For your response to the 3rd question (energy gradient increment between n and p regions with depletion layer formation): I do want to ask that referring to one point you  made in the video about why initially the energy levels of n type semiconductor is naturally a bit less than p type. There you had explained the reason in terms of effect by nuclear attractions. So my question is, if we consider the energy drop / energy jump in the respective n and p regions during the depletion layer is being formed, how can that be explained in terms of thr nuclear attractions (individually for n type and p type)?

 @aryanandaleebazim823  No problem!  My only concern is that we're getting close to the edge of my understanding -and I'd prefer to have Dr. Campbell help (a professor and awesome person that we've used as a resource to double-check our work in microelectronics) but she's always crazy busy.  So I will do my best!


I think we need to expand the bowl analogy more.  In reality, it's not just one bowl, it's trillions and quadrillions of bowls per square centimeter of lattice.  And even though that may sound like a lot, it's absolutely tiny compared to the amount of atoms in that same area.  So, at this point it becomes a statistical thing.  But the more bowls there are, the more likely that an electron will find one and then fall into it to the lower energy level.  Once the electrons cross through the depletion region, there are a lot more bowls, so it's statistically much more likely that the electrons will drop down in energy level at that point.


If I'm understanding this question properly (which I may not be) you're trying to figure out why the n and p regions have an even greater difference in energy levels due to the nuclear forces on trivalent versus pentavalent electrons, AFTER the depletion has been formed.  I think, in this case, that this is not actually the case.  This change after the formation of the depletion layer is not due to the nuclear forces between the nucleus and the valence electrons but simply by the energy of the extra electrons that are moving from the n region to the p region.  So, instead of the inherent differences in energy levels due to the nuclear forces between the nuclei and electrons, it's due to the physical movement of particles that have intrinsic energy.  Does that make sense?  I'm not sure if I could go any deeper than that without getting a degree in chemistry or physics. 😀

Why doesn't a regular steel magnet work the same as a diode? It's got a side that attracts and a side that repels which sounds a lot like what the PN junction is. But I know nothing just sayin

If Conduction band has electron when we put an energy into it. Why does the conduction band of p-n junction has electron? Thank you in advance!

but as we know that when holes and electrons combine they neutralize each other then why you show +ve and _ve charge in animation ?

If no external voltage is applied across the p-n Junction, then what will exist in depilation layer...???
1.hole
2.election 
3.both hole & election 
4.free charge
Which will be the correct answer..???? 
Please  reply me fast.....

Great work never do it again

I hope it will be translated into Arabic. I wish I could understand all the words😔😓

two seperate explainations as to why the depletion regions stops growing: problematic...

his eyes tho ...

It was nice until you started showing the diagram. I think it would be better if you just showed things on the diode on atomic level, jumping to diagram made me confused.

Doesn't explain how a diode works, wrong title, should be "the formation of the depletion region".  So why does current only flow one way?  Why is there a forward bias voltage that follows an exponential curve? You did not answer "How does a diode work?"

Cool video, great video, and audio. How did you make the diagrams?

thank you

You know, I'd never even thought about that.  My thought would be that the magnet has magnetic poles whereas the depletion region at the PN junction has electric charges, so the PN junction affects the electrons and holes.  I know magnetism and electricity are related (hence electromagnetism) but they're not the same thing.

I'm sorry, I don't really understand the question...

 @CircuitBread  mmmm so electron only occurs in conduction band when we put energy into it. But in this case, p-n junction is in equilibrium state(no external energy include). Which makes me wonder how does an electron occurs in an conduction band when we didn’t put energy into a system😋

Hi Aina, it's a style choice that we thought would be more clear than making them disappear.  If we made the charges disappear, then there would be questions about whether or not they were annihilated or something.  Or so we presume.  But you are completely correct, they create a net charge of 0 when the hole and the electron combine.

 @CircuitBread  okay

Even without an external voltage, you'll still form the depletion layer with its ions.  Because of that depletion layer, you wouldn't be expecting to see any free carriers until there's an external voltage.

 @CircuitBread  so you meant the answer of that question is 4. Free charge or ions.......?

Our hope is to eventually have all our videos and our website translated into multiple languages but we still don't actually make money doing this yet, so we're still very resource limited.  But it would be great to make the content available to more people!

 @CircuitBread   
What you are doing is a wonderful service for students of knowledge, and whoever serves science and the world, he will reap success and blessings in his life, God willing, you will be able to succeed to the fullest extent possible, thank you very much.

What's wrong with tht

 @gameora25  nothing wrong they are beautiful

Hey Pinky, thanks for the feedback!  We actually made the explicit decision to show the diagram because it was so confusing and non-intuitive (particularly for Josh) in college.   We were hoping that by showing the relationship between the atomic level and the diagram, the diagram would make a bit more sense.

This is the first in a three part series, I recommend you watch all three and see if that clarifies things.

Thanks!  All of the images and animation were done in Adobe After Effects.  We almost entirely use the Adobe Suite as there's better overlap between the designers and the video team for our client work.

 @CircuitBread  interesting, thanks for the response! It would be interesting for you to do a video on your audio and video setup. I am also curious what lave mic and camera you use. It looks and sounds professional.

