You and Steve Brunton are 2 gems of control systems.!

Hey everyone, thanks for watching this video! If you have any questions or comments that you'd like me to see, please leave them under this comment so that I get notified and can respond.  Cheers!

Such a practical example (the beam) at the end makes things so much more logic (unobservable modes) than I learned in class

Another Brian Douglas Hood Classic👌

God bless you Brian, finally could understand the intuition behind all that math!

Probably the most useful video I happen to come across

This deserves 100K+ views. Good job, Brian. Stay productive!

Thank you Brian

Nice to find Brian here!

Your videos are art, thanks dude!

why this video does not have million likes?

Omg... I just came here after watching Steve's series !! Thanks for the pointers

That car driving example hits hard ... Brian shows that perfect examples could exists!

Man you are awesome.
Thank you very much.

Really nice job Brian, you're right to be proud of this one...excellent explanation with well-chosen examples.  Thank you for this!

Simple explanation with powerful examples

Great explanation! Thank you so much!

This is a fantastic explaination of the topic and gave me a better and clearer view of controllability and observability. Thanks a lot!

Thank you for this video!

Exactly what I need !! thank you so much

I would say Katkim show and Christopher Lum(especially for aerospace) are can be added to the list..!

Its just amazing that anyone can learn anything over the internet!

i just realize both of them are from Seattle

Indeed! ;)

I couldn't agree more!

As true as it gets.

exactly what i asked! thank you brian :D

 @benallia8262  Glad to hear it!

Make video on the how to interpret sensor data.

Hi brian 
I'm from ethiopia. Your videos are exceptional. I'm truly satisfied. I thank you. My question is that can you do such videos on linear quadratic regulator (LQR)?

 @gosayeweldemaryam2415  I'm finishing up a video on LQR right now! Should post next week.

Hi Brian , I follow you more than 2 years and your aproach on control theoy videos make me brave. it is amazing for people which want to learn. ı want to learn  from you how to make higher order sliding mode control theory and difference between smc and other robust cotrol aproach such as h infinty fuzzy and adaptive technic.

 @bugrahana3395  Thanks for the kind comment! Robust control is definitely on the short list of topics for this year.

Thanks for the great explanation with the very clear example!! I really love it! It helped me a lot with my coming exam Model Predictive Control. Would you please also make a video talking about the milder conditions: stabilizability and detectability?

Hi Brian,
Let's say Xdot = AX+Br with A = [0 1; -100 -8], B = [0 100] and X = [x1 x2]
How come it is not possible to move x2, even if A is fully controllable (rank(ctrb(A,B))=2)?
Thanks a lot for your help

Hi @marctison1039  , I'm not sure I follow your question.  What do you mean by move x2? I was able to move both eigenvalues of the system with both pole placement and LQR.  Am I misunderstanding your question?

Brian, your explanations are gold. Thank you.

Hi @Brian Bouglas I have a question why did you put a sensor in plant? Why it is not Feedback function?

Hi Brian! Excellent video, thank you. Can you point me to a good reference on understanding system modes and how to find them?

Hi  Brian. Thanks for the great lecture. Very informative, short, and right to the point. I have a question. 
with regard to the C matrix, I can estimate a state by simply integrating another state (for example velocity and position as mentioned in the lecture). So, in this case, can I claim I am measuring that state, too? and also put 1 in C matrix associated with that matrix? Thanks

Hey brian! I was wondering if you could explain why we have various cannonical forms for state space? like controllable and obseravable forms. What is the purpose behind it?

Hi Brian
Could you make a video on kalman filtering. Thanks for your videos

Thanks Professor! How can I generate the code to run the controller in Arduino? Have you any great stuff on control implementations in hardware? I'd like to see!

Thank you for the video! However Im a bit confused. There was a question I stumbled upon today where I was supposed to find the controllability and observability indexes for a state space representation. From what I have understood you can decide the observabillity and controllability by using the observability and controllability matrices. However there also seems to be another way by using the jordan canonical form? So if a row in the B-matrix (in jordan canonical form) is non zero, then the corresponding last row in jordan block in the A matrix is conrollable? and the largest controllable block decides the controllability index? however I tried both methods but got different answers. The jordan block I have were 2 1 times 1 jordan blocks, both controllable, but the size is 1 times 1 so shouldnt the conrollability index be 1? but when computing the controllability matrix it is full rank, so for that the controllability index is 2. Thankful for any answer!

Hi BrianBDouglas, Thanks for the videos. Pl  inform for a nonlinear mathematical model and a nonlinear damper model can i use the state space approach in Matlab

Thanks!

Awesome. Thank you for watching!

This definitely helps the intuition.  Good video!

Fantastic video !

Thank you for sharing :)

Excellent video.  Thank you.

Это просто превосходно!

Amazing stuff

Hey! I have watched your lectures on your YouTube channel and it is good to see you here again on this MATLAB channel. 
Great explanation...nice work...Sir 😊

Thanks that was so simply explained and so helpfull.

wow!

Hi Brian , awesome work!
May I know which software you use for this illustrations?
Thanks

Amazing explanation, thanks a lot!!!

Hi Brian
Many Thanks for your great videos ,  do you have  notes/slides  that can be shared in pdf format ?

Would have been nice of some demonstrations in matlab/simulink, just like part 2

Hello Brian, can you please make a lecture about stabilizability and detectability? those are very confusing terms. Thank you

Hey! good Job Sir, 
Hello All.... Is there any  specialized Power system course using SIMULINK

Your definition of controllability is actually reachability, in continuous systems they are equivalent but for discrete systems they are not. To be reachable the system must be able to go from your initial state to any other state, to be controllable the system must be able to go from any initial state to zero. In discrete systems it is easy to see that a A = [0 0; 0 0] would be controllable (gets to zero from any point in one sampling without depending on B), but it would only be reachable if B = [1 0; 0 1] (individually control each state). Great video nonetheless.

When we judge  people from outside based on their color or financial status, we are observing only a handful of states, and thus we end up fooling ourselves

Could you please tell me why will C-matrix be zero when states are not measurable. Also what could be the output y in the examples of train and car? What role do output y and C-matrix play in observability, conceptually?

Using reconstructed velocity, by position diferentiation, and these same positions as output can bring more information to estimate other states?

Controllability is dual to Observability
Poles (eigenvalues) are dual to Zeroes
The Initial value theorem IVT is dual to the Final value theorem FVT
Stability is dual to instability
Robustness is dual to performance
Complex numbers are dual to real numbers


In physics equivalence, similarity is also known as duality, so we have the the following duals (Jewels):-
Energy is equivalent or dual to mass -- Einstein
Gravitation is dual to acceleration --- Einstein
Potential energy is dual to kinetic energy
Space is dual to time -- Einstein
Certainty is dual to uncertainty, the Heisenberg certainty/uncertainty principle


Energy is literally duality. Energy is transported by the electromagnetic field in the form of photons or wave/particles, quantum duality. Energy is inherently dual. In physics everything is made out of energy hence duality.


If energy is conserved and energy is duality then duality must be conserved! The conservation of duality is the fifth law of thermodynamics.


Negative curvature is dual to positive curvature (Riemann, Gauss)
Hyperbolic geometry is dual to elliptic, spherical geometry
A white hole (big bang, divergence) is dual to an infinite mass black hole (convergence)


In mathematics: Integration is dual to differentiation


Duality creates reality, all observers are inherently dual if they are made out of energy


Genes are dual to memes


Everything (all things) is/are dual to nothing.

So glad you found it helpful!

Glad it was helpful!

Did you just cover Heisenberg in more ways than he himself pictured.. 😉😅

 @ashkabrawn  Dark energy is dual to dark matter! 

Thesis is dual to anti-thesis -- the generalized or time independent Hegelian dialectic.
Hegel's cat: Alive (thesis, being) is dual to not alive (anti-thesis, non being) -- Schrodinger's cat.
Immanuel Kant: Synthetic a priori knowledge, all knowledge is dual.
Philosophy, physics, mathematics, control theory all lead to duality!
"Philosophy is dead" -- Stephen Hawking.
It looks like Mr Hawking got this one wrong! No philosophy = no duality.

so ying and yang

Love your videos! Can you please explain why is the D matrix usually regarded as zero in college courses?

Good

Bnhihhhh

Correction to my earlier mistake:-


A white hole (big bang, divergence) is dual to an infinite mass black hole (convergence)


Dark energy is literally hyperbolic geometry or negative curvature
Positive is dual to the negative.

Thank you for the video! However Im a bit confused. There was a question I stumbled upon today where I was supposed to find the controllability and observability indexes for a state space representation. From what I have understood you can decide the observabillity and controllability by using the observability and controllability matrices. However there also seems to be another way by using the jordan canonical form? So if a row in the B-matrix (in jordan canonical form) is non zero, then the corresponding last row in jordan block in the A matrix is conrollable? and the largest controllable block decides the controllability index? however I tried both methods but got different answers. The jordan block I have were 2 1 times 1 jordan blocks, both controllable, but the size is 1 times 1 so shouldnt the conrollability index be 1? but when computing the controllability matrix it is full rank, so for that the controllability index is 2. Thankful for any answer!

Great video!

To my understanding. D matrix is the direct feed through term, the input will change your measurement (y) directly, not through the system evolution (Ax). And this type of system is rare (never see and cannot think of one). Note that if D is non-zero, the transfer function will not be strictly proper. Another reason maybe, because the maths is the same with or without D being zero, college courses usually design to be easy to understand and illustrate the key concept.

Just something came up in my mind. If you are discretizating a continuous time system, it is likely that the resulting discrete system (Ad,Bd, Cd,Dd) Dd is non-zero. I think there is a paper talks about discretization will introduce something call "sampling zeros". Even the continuous model is strictly proper, the discretized system will not be.

Thank you for  watching.

Unfortunately, I don't remember the Jordan Form approach from my university days forever ago and haven't used it since! So, I don't have a great answer (maybe someone reading this comment can chime in). I quickly asked ChatGPT your question and got a long response, but here is the main takeaway: [If you have two 1x1 blocks, each controllable, the system as a whole is controllable. Each block individually has index 1, but for the system as a whole, you need two steps to reach any state (since you have two independent modes). For diagonalizable systems of dimension, n, all 1x1 Jordan blocks, then index is n if all modes are controllable.] Sorry I'm not more help here!

