Damn!! I should have come here 2 years back.
Awesome job man!

I am from NIT you are teaching better than my professors who have 30 years experience

Rushal, thank you so much for creating these videos. They have definitely helped me throughout college so far and you have done a great job with the explanations/animations.

Finally understnad one of guitar pedal knobs. Thank you so much

Wow! very simple, but I was struggling the whole semester. Thanks a lot.

Thanks bro God bless u saved my time for my circuit designing subject project 

Respect from Bahrain

great job . i never understood when my teachers talk about those filters . now u with juz 13 mins video  damn , i got it all . thanks

Thank you for your great videos!

Great video's and easy to follow keep up the great work...

Your way of teaching is awesome

You're a legend, your videos been helpful in all aspects of studying electronics. Thankyou

Great explanation. 
Like the way you study.
THX

You are a very good teacher. Thank you.

Great thanks for your efforts

Great Job, thanks for share it, i am from Argentina and you explain better than my professors

Thanks, it was useful ❤

Your videos are awesome. It's so easy to follow

this video is amazing thank you so much (Y)

Bhai u have good knowledge about filter...keep it up .

Cleared up my misunderstanding about band pass filters. Thanks

Maybe mizoram Or jammu

which nit??

I am from iit bhu

I am from IIT  and he is teaching better than my profs who have 30 years of experience

 @MehakdeepKaur  am from MIT he is teaching better than my prof who have 69 yrs of exp (teaching from death bed)

The point is we care towards the wnd of the semester. 😇

Hello Fabio, really he explained this in an excellent way.....

Yes bro, he had explained really good....

great video, thanks alot

I love ur video.nice one

Great knowledge sir love u 😍

great video thank you.

Thanks for helping

Superb!!

your way of teaching is appreciable.

Awesome explanation...post a video on Derating...

Nice

good explaining

Thank you sir❤

Loving your videos a loooot. N thank u soooo much. I'm a second year electrical engineering student... Love from my side

Nice video 
#electronspark

thanks bro <3

Thanks a lot

Your videos are excelent , I enjoy learning from them.

If I don't fail this sem...it's due to you😇

Thanks for this. Great video.

Great job bro.you are making the youngest minds to think bro.niceeee.

Here who are from madan mohan  Malaviya gorakhpur

Norman Nosher
Appreciable?  er Appreciated.....

Hi

Yes Naurin, really good videos....

Yes bro, really good....

Yes Samuel, really good video....

Yes Puneeth, really good....

your videos made my day

👌👍

sir,  can you please explain twin T notch filter?

Do you have a video on multiple feedback bandpass filter with actual op amp IC?

Hi, would you be able to go through frequency response for the Akerberg-Mossberg Notch filter please.

Can you teach how to make circuit second order n third order of band pass filter? By using opa602bp

Can u tell about second and higher order band filters

I remember during college days I used to think, Why LPF and HPF in cascade doesn't result in Band stop filter, just like cascading HPF & LPF result in Band Pass Filter
The reason is when we use less cut off frequency LPF and High cutoff frequency HPF. The multiplication or cascade will results in LPF only bcz the LPF output is zero after its cutoff frequency which restricts the role of HPF

*Bro that was about wide type (of bandpass and band stop)
pls explain narrow type also*

Hello, thanks. Any guide to designing these filters in microwave frequencies?

I simulated your stop bass design with multisim and I only got a low pass filter with really hig cutoff

What is the transfer function of fourth order recursive bandpass filter in the range 5-15 Hz using z transform.

I pretty sure he is dubbing in "band pass filter"

Sir Hindi me bataiye plz

Hi, how to design a 50Hz notch filter?

Hello sir 
Muje 140hz to 5k ka passiv filters bnadoge please??

Is it necessary that the adder circuit be an invverting one? Can't it be just a regular one?

so, in case of band and stop pass filter, we don't concern about the gain?

How to find gain of stop band filter?

Transfer function of the bandpass filter was not explained. Unfortunately.

Yes Tarun this is excellent....

how to get a band-pass from a band-stop? HEEELP please :(

How about designing the band pass and band stop filter using L and C components. Does it have any good filtering compared to  R and C..Could please explain.

Gud

hello, we are using 144mhz, so many interference here in my working q

What did you say?

jai ssmb

great video , can this be used for filtering visible light  into different spectrum ? I know how to do that chemically but I want to make it digital .

What will happen if the out puts of the two Opamps are connected directly (i.e without the two 1K Ohms resistors @12:55  of video) as the output of the band stop filter? I will be really obliged for your prompt clarification.

Need to know about RLC High Pass  filter

why we need R1 and R2 in the adder?

why we have to take the geometric mean of fc2&fc1 as the centre frequency?
and why here arithmetic mean will not be used?

Sir, u explained it very well I need ur help, actually I want to make the band pass filter, which only passed certain range of frequencies, rest it become inactive 
I want to. Make it on lt spice.  Guide me, becuase in ur video. Or many video only I am. Getting to bell shape graph.  It is not working as lock system

Thanks for a nice video. Would you kindly tell us that what is the purpose of the adder (at 12:55 of the video)? Why can't we simply join (short) the outputs of the low pass and high pass filter & take the output from that point.   
What will happen if we don't use opamps and just use one high pass and one low pass filters in parallel?

Sir, please make a video on phased lock loop...its a very confusing topic

love from mahesh babu fans

Hi from Poland, I loved your video, you explained everything well. It was really helpful for me. Could you just tell me if for band stop filter f_H frequency will be always higher than f_L and for band pass filter f_L will be always higher than f_H?

Good explanation but using transfer function or different frequencies, if you prove mathematically then it would be more clear.

in which filter the output current becomes very less than input current

What is notch filter

What is the difference equation of fourth order bandpass our filter

Yes Ms. Lukose, this video is very good....

I agree....this video is very good...

Super anniiyya

For that, you need to use an optical filter. They are available for different wavelength

If you do not require any gain then yes you can connect.

Yes Suraj, really nice videos.....

I think you are referring to 10:05 right ??  They are used to provide the gain. -Rf/R1 and -Rf/R2 will be the gain for upper and lower stages respectively. Let's say the output of the upper filter circuit with buffer is Vx and for the lower circuit, it is Vy. Then the overall output will be (-Rf/R1)Vx + (-Rf/R2)Vy.
I hope it will clear your doubt.

Yes at 10:05. So it is mandatory put them in the circuit ,  Rf is not enough, right ?

I thought that to the adder (the circuit on the right ) Rf was enough to work properly.

No, R1, R2 are required. It's basically summer circuit. For more information, you can check the video on op-amp as summer.

Centre frequency doesn't always lie in the middle of fc2 and fc1 . In order to keep it in middle Q factor of circuit must be quite high.

I have already explain how to design the filter. But more practical purpose, you can use this very useful tool for accurate design. Will probably make a short video on that. 
But here is the link for the same: https://tools.analog.com/en/filterwizard/
Hope, thats helpful.

Using Op-amp we can avoid the loading effect. If you simply connect the output of individual filters or to say if you connect them in parallel, then you will see the loading effect. So, it is good practice to add the individual filter responses using Op-amp.

Thanks for the prompt response.

Yes, very soon I will make it.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS   will be eagerly waiting...

f_L stands for lower cut-off frequency and f_H stands for higher cut-off frequency. So, irrespective of band-pass of band-stop, when we refer f_H and f_L, f_L is always less than f_H. I hope it will clear your doubt.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS , thanks I had doubts cause in 5:30 minute you calculated fc1 and fc2 and low pass filter is higher than high pass filter. Low pass filter is 106.1 kHz and high pass filter 10.61 kHz. That's why my question :)

It is frequency dependent. It depends at what frequency we are looking at. But I think you are talking about parallel resonant circuit (which acts like a band stop filter).

A notch filter is band stop filter with very narrow stop band. Normally, the band stop filters rejects certain band of frequencies but when you want to remove a specific very narrow band of unwanted frequency then in such cases this notch filter is used.

IIR*

How to calculate the pass band gain practically

Excellent Videos. I have a quick question. In the band stop filter why we are connecting the outputs of the LPF and HPF at the inverting terminal of the summing amplifier (voltage adder circuit). Will, it not then work as a subtractor rather than working as an adder? Cause if we want to add, do not we have to connect the outputs of the LPF and HPF at the non-inverting terminal of the summing amplifier?

doubt 
 bro is that amp means ampere in the the graphs that you have drawn plz someone clarify

why dont we cascade LPF with HPF in band stop filter instead u have used adder but in case of band pass filter, cascading of HPF with LPF is done...

a video about audio filtering and the voice sound awful. please turn the gain of your microphone down

Do you mind going over OSCILLATORS? Please!!! I love your work really easy to understand unlike my professors!

does anyone know why the FC2 is in HZ , and FC1 is in KHZ ? +

Hi please a question
Do we use this band pass filter to determine raw signals?

Some values are not visible because of subtitles..

After cascading a first order low pass and first order high pass we get , second order bandpass then why should we take 3db fall instead of 6 db (for second order)?

Sir may I know which text book u prefer

why you put both filter in parallel ?
why not cascading ?

Why do we use an adder for the band stop
While cascade for band pass?

Can we use a cascade for band stop as well?

sir will u upload more videos on filters or its done ?

What will happen if we use Low pass filter first and then High pass filter?

You have designed all filters using R-C combinations. How we can forget inductor in filter designing? Please ensure you make filters using R, L and C. In most of the cases that are being prcatically implemented, we usually observe combinations of R,L and C. Please ensure it.

Great video although your intro music is painful to here..

If we do this in practical ..then which op amp should be used

Filter... Filter... Filter.. I get it, its a filter!

Pls sir which book we follow

Just apply the sine wave with variable frequency (You can apply it using the signal generator). and measure the output signal amplitude. 
The ratio of output to the input will give you pass band gain.

The outputs of the LPF and HPF will get added bu the output will be inverting  (will have 180 degrees of phase shift and looks like -(VLP + VHP)) as it is connected at inverting terminal. To get a positive output, one more inverting amplifier will be required. 
I Hope it will clear your doubt. If you still have any doubt then do let me know here.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  Wouldn't it be the same thing to just connect them to the non inverting input and have both outputs of the filter added?

Its amplitude.  If we plot the transfer function then we will get two plots. Phase vs frequency and second is amplitude vs frequency. 
I hope it will clear your doubt.

In case of cascade connection, the output will be the overlapping region of the individual response. Suppose, you cascade the LPF followed by HPF, then after LPF, all high frequencies are already attenuated. So, even if you use HPF, it will not pass high frequencies as there no high frequencies to pass. That's why adder is used. 
I hope it will clear your doubt.

+ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS thnx alot

papa666
And do something about that impenetrable accent.

Thanks, soon I am going to cover it.

ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS hoping it’s soon enough since my test is in a day lol... thanks for replying love ur channel!

Would you please mention the timestamp where you are referring to ?

Dude you can drag the subtitles anywhere in the video screen

Kindly turn off the subtitles for that particular time. I will try to keep that thing in mind so that from now on even if subtitles are used, the values will remain visible.

Irrespective of the order of the filter, we always look for 3 dB point where the voltage becomes 0.707 of the peak value or the power becomes half. So, depending on the order of the filter, 3 dB frequency will change. 
I hope, it will clear your doubt.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  
Thank you sir...is it is true for both active and passive filters

To get basic idea about filters, electronic principles by Albert Malvino is good book.

Yes Satya Malvino is a good book....

I have already replied to that question in earlier comments. 
Here, I am copying that answer:
In case of cascade connection, the output will be the overlapping region of the individual response. Suppose, you cascade the LPF followed by HPF, then after LPF, all high frequencies are already attenuated. So, even if you use HPF, it will not pass high frequencies as there no high frequencies to pass. That's why adder is used. 
I hope it will clear your doubt.
If you still have any question then do let me know here.

Add in cascade ..u will find a result whereinn only high pass filter willbe effective then.

Similarly in LPF if you parallel them,, nothing would be filtered.

Check it

The frequency response of the cascaded system is the overlap of the individual frequency response. In case if try to implement the bandstop filter by cascading the low pass and high pass filter then the output would be the overlap of the individual response. If there is no overlapping region, then probably you will not get anything at the output.
For the bandstop filter, it should reject only a particular band of frequencies and should pass all other frequencies. So, If you just cascade the LPF and HPF then either you get some overlapping region or nothing at all. And that's not the frequency response of the Bandpass filter. So, to get the desired frequency response for the bandstop filter, you need to use adder. 
I hope it will clear your doubt.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  Yes i understand now. Thank you very much.

Hello Asha, I hope you got it right....

Yes, more videos will be uploaded on filters. I will try to cover almost all types filters in the upcoming videos.  But next couple of videos will be on different topic (on Network analysis).

I will try to complete it now as soon as possible. Next video is on technology. But then after I will try to complete this filter circuit portion as soon as I can.

At least 2-3 more videos on filters will be covered, which will cover almost all required aspects of the filter.

Yes, I am going to cover it.

Just wait for one or two days at the most.

sir please complete this filter circuit part as soon as possible because it is very important in competitive exam too and we the aspirants are waiting to learn from you,thank you sir for such contribution........

ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS@thanks sir for your valuable reply, within this month can it be possible??

ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS sir will you cover Butterworth and chebyshev filters, only the analytics part of the opam circuit?

ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS thank you sir, for such valuable reply, it will be a great help for us

When it is going to upload?

ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS OK sir

Since it is cascade connection, you can interchange the blocks.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  sir i was asking whether it will still work as Band Pass Filter or not? If signal is input to that what will happen? What will be output?

Yes Raj, this will work...

Yes, that's correct. I know it. I am planning make videos on filter design using R, L and C.

Umer Sir, why dont you make one and load for everyones benefit

IC741

Sikha, you can use 741 or any other OP-amp

For filters, you may refer electronics principles by malvino.

Your excellent video needs a narration from somebody with an accent easier to understand.
Fighting the technical matters is bad enough without trying to unravel what is being said! 
The English is fine but the accent needs 'working on!"

