One problem with GPS rescue is that GPS altitude is not accurate or consistent. Without barometric altimeter, relying solely on GPS altitude, GPS rescue could produce some undesirable results.

Thanks for the break down got the same GPS. Your tips got me working.... I trusted the assembly of the cable but mine had two wires swapped around. Once if reversed then on the plug it jumped into life.

thanks for this movie!!!! greetz from poland

A mid-tier GPS is bare minimum for any flights I do over water due to the standard failsafe action of "Drop". Even if it acts wonky, it's at least a moment to try to get signal back and not go swimming for likely dead equipment. Been really liking Matek's units. They gain locks quickly and are easily configured.

Nice video. got my copter in the air finally. thanks

Nice video buddy 😊. Try not to do so much aaaaa... Don't take it in the wrong way. Once again nice content. Keep up the good work 👍

Thanks man, always appreciate your videos

Great video I just bought this GPS and I was looking for instructions you are the man

Amazing content. Thank you

Why send a manual on how to connect it when there's a guy like you explaining it so well...


Another subscriber you have.

I love that you made this video but the “ums” and “aaahs” are killing me😂

Thank you for your assistance, it was really helpful

very nice & detailed tutorial..

Both BN-220 and BN-880 can fly any ranges you want. The BN-880 has a compass in it.

Nice video , be nice to have on some of my quads, 😃👋✌️I lost a couple of theme GoPro and all ... the one in the lake and one in a river , don’t think I would get theme  back lol

Nice job! Thanks

Good info. Thanks for sharing👍🏽

Just ordered a couple of these for my quads, everyone said they work great...

I want to know the difference between the Beitian 220 and 180 modules because they both have the same antenna markings.

goods job on that. thanks

I was not actually aware of that to be 100% honest with you. Do you mind if I pin your comment to the top? That way any who watch the video and see the comments can see that as a warning perhaps?

 @supafpv1759  Please do, I don't think most folks are aware. I myself became aware after some research because my Chimera4 GPS would show my altitude as anywhere from 1,500 ft to -1,500 ft, all in the same flight. Double-check my research though, I'm a relative noob.
Also, I just received some copper tape which I intend to wrap and ground my GPS wires since it seems these things are vulnerable to interference.

The GPS altitude is probably based on standard pressure, 29.92 inches of mercury. The correction rate in one inch per thousand feet.

Say that to BetaFlight 4.4

Maybe some manufacturer comes out with a station pressure sensor to calculate altitude based on barometric pressure right at the drone. I know its possible. Kestrel does it for handheld devices,,, now we just need someone to make it for our drones.

Glad I could help! And yea some models have the wires switched around. Glad you figured it out tho!

No prob man that’s why I make them!

Glad I could help!

Glad I could help!

Maaaan that’s the nicest thing ever! Thanks !

Rippp man yea that almost happened to me too. I got lucky lol but never flying over water or longish range without one of these puppies

Of course! Glad I could help!

They do! It’s pretty darn accurate actually. I’ve flown about 30+ packs and every time it’a been quite accurate.

 @supafpv1759  That's good to know, my head is wrecked because my first kwad is lost 🙄, thanks for reply very much appreciated new subscriber buddy

 @supafpv1759  CAn i use it in that cheap aliexpress drones ??? I buy one with gps problems and they give me a refund off 25€ instead off sending a gps module ! The drone is a Lsrc s6s !

No prob! I’m here to help if you have any questions!

Thanks man super helpful. What frame is this? Are those 3d shoes ?

Very well presented and helpfull! ; ) Would also be very helpful to know if all FC's (F3/F4/F7/H7) with a spare/vacant UART can accept these Beitian GPS modules and if Betaflight will allow a large circular OSD compass ring, provided we purchase the Beitian BN-880 (which includes a compass) or similar!

What weirdo uses uart 2 for gps, is it just to make things more difficult or something? lol isn't uart 2 like auto default setup for your actual controller link? Just not sure I have seen something that usually didn't just have a uart plug for uart 2 4 pin to go directly to an elrs. I guess there are all those odd flight controllers the airplane guys like to use like pixhawk or orange cube weird stuff. Just curious because like most modern style fpv flight controllers usually default to uart 2 for control link, did yours have a different uart default or.....I dunno if their is an or even, that's why it confuses me so so much. Hey can you help me btw with my gps, when I'm setting it up on the bench connected to betaflight with no battery connected, it can see the gps but won't connect to any satellites betaflight won't even give me a yellow light at the top for the gps. Just kidding, seriously on my first build it took me 4 days of flashing, reflashing, and rechecking my wiring, only to figure out the gps basically will never fully work without a battery connected, so as much as I joke about it, if I would have seen this before I did my first build would have saved me a massive headache and days of stress. I built a long range 10 inch for my first build, I was/am really really dumb......

i assume waiting for 5 minutes to get sattelites would be very bad for the vtx just being static on the ground,   should i implement a low-power disarm or would that cause other unforeseen problems.

You could have recorded it with smaller letter, just to make it even more impossible to read.

Thanks for this video. Nice FC shown. Does BF failsafe settings conflict with OPENTX settings such as 'nopulses?' I have nopulses selected on my 9X Plus

Are those two grey bars on the top of the screen the antenna that is being used by the goggles? if so, how do I get that on my osd???

Video Idea - Collab with Michael lol

Thanks for the video. Do you need to map a switch to gps rescue? Or can you just leave it enabled at all times (in case of a failsafe)?

I have a racing drone .will this gps work on it so I can control it better? Thanks

How do I add a fifth Aux in betaflight? I already switched my tango ii to 12 channels, betaflights not showing this

Hi,  If I do lose my drone and flip the return to home switch, when it comes back into range i and i can visually see it, can I toggle off the return to home and take control while it is still in the air?

Nice device

Bro can we use this for pixhauk transmitter???

my solder iron was too thick. I cant install the gps

HE CONNECTED TO TX2!

Any on DJI Tello drone

How do i get return to home with a gps?

My gps isn’t lighting up / turning on

Do some drones have a connector already so it’s plug and play?

Thanks for the advice

 @supafpv1759  Im so lost in thiy GPS
Now my VTX config disappeared

I’m down for sure! Actually let’s exchange contact info. Is there a private messaging system on here?

 @supafpv1759  not that I know of! Fire me an email with your contact deets or on Instagram @houghtondotcom

Lol thanks! What does a GPS master think of the device?

 @supafpv1759  depends on the actual GPS device performance

I wanted this for my drone but it's unfortunately out of stock, which other similar GPS do you recommend? 🤔 @SUPA FPV

Hi Bro..... can we use on Protek 35 whoop... i am new to FPV.. please suggest.....
Great video :)

I soldered to tx1 / rx1 pad, but Uart1 is missing in ports tab. Confused...

Can you pelp me please?
Gps showed long.. and lat.. when fist powering on and connecting to betaflight but could not get any satellites.
Then it detected gps on the top "gps" indication of betaflight.

Then I changed it to Ublocx and was showing same thing.
Wen I changed back to NMEA it did not detect gps anymore and showed up only with Ublocks, but still no satellite.

(Blue light was blinking all the time on gps).

This morning I left it in the open for 10 min. BLue light turned solid, now it does not detect pgs in betaflight under Ublox or NMEA>>>
I don't understand what is going on??

What is your FC signaling all the time with four asterisks?

I own several dji avata 2 drones which I love  !
I also own a mario speedy bee 8" drone
I'm not good at flying manual mode unfortunately 
I just fly in sports mode !
My question is can I set up my mario speedy bee so it fly like a sport mode and not manual mode as in self stability and to be able to hover like my dji drones ??
Thanks 
Glen 
Australia

Hi... great video. Just wondering... It takes around 5 minutes to get all the satellites on board? :S Thanks!

Will this do live speed in the head set?

Hi there, i am planning to put the BN880 to my Protek 35 FPV. But I realized the FC (Beast F7 55A V2.2 AIO (BMI270) 25.5x25.5) does not have the SDA & SCL slot. I wonder where should the SDA and SCL wire on the BN880 be soldered on? 

I plan to use the BN880 instead of the BN220 because I want the compass function as I keep getting lost in the forest...

Even if it was $50 it's a cheap peace of mind to save a potential $700.
I could be wrong but I don't think quad speed has much to do with a Ham license. Milliwatt rating of the VTX? Definitely. No higher than 1 watt (1000mW =1 Watt) Wattage is a measure of power output.......P= I x R or Power in watts = Voltage times resistance if you're in a circuit. Basic Ohms law.
Lots of Chinese and other suppliers of VTX's will limikt the VTX to 1 watt, with instructions to 'unlock' it to say 1.2 or higher. I know there are 2 watt transmitters now. They do this limiting to be abvle to sell legally in the US if I'm not mistooken.

Would u recommend putting this on the tinyhawk freestyle 2 or the tinygo?

im getting 0 sattelites dont know why

I don't know if you're still responding, but could you explain, why there's a seperate battery on the gps module? I mean when the main battery gets unplugged, you're screwed anyways!? You'd need to have the crossfire receiver soldered to it so it's still able to send the gps data to your radio, I guess... Been searching for a answer for quite a while.

hello....i have a  6s flywoo vampire 2  hd with dji  google...to the point..the air unit had some  issues  from a broken antenna and sent it for repair so i did  it  analog now...since i had a brand new gps  beitian 220..i said why not add that too  now i have lot of space......initialy  the leds were  working  .....but  i just unplugged the  plug from the gps..and now its not turning on   again..what is happening? is it possible to broke cause  just i took it out will the FC was on usb???

if we ask any question

Thanks! Did you find a way to make BF beep when the GOS has a lock? There’s a switch on the config page but doesn’t seem to work for me.

Do you have to register the GPS unit? surely you need to pay to use the service? or is that part of the GPS purchase? I think I will need to get one of these for flying in South Africa....

Wait so this one chip will automatically fly your drone home? It works for all drones?

I wired a GPS unit to a baby croc lr......that I took off a flywoo lr....I double checked the wirering and is still not working properly am I missing something?

Ciao Supa, vorrei sapere se questo modulo lo potrei installare sul mio drone visuo xs 816.

Do Bs 280 works the same as Bs 220 as you shown in the video??? 🤔

Yea should be possible as lon as there’s an open uart

 @supafpv1759  thanks buddy

 @supafpv1759  One more question: Does this direction arrow is accurate.... or should I have to buy Beitian Dual BN 880 for it......as of in my place 880 is not available :) Thanks a lot

Sometimes UART1 is the usb connector allocated to it. Try one of the open uarts not previously assigned

 @supafpv1759  I soldered it to tx1 & rx1 on the board. I can see blue led on the GPS but betaflight doesn't recognised it. As per specs its written," uart3 for rx, uar6 for smartaudio, uart4 for digital(dji), and spare UART1 for pilot to solder their own". I am lost 😀

Yes the first time around lol, afterwards it should be about a min max.

 @supafpv1759  was my question, thanks.

There is not a separate battery on this GPS module. It needs a constant power source. Check out one of my latest videos about the GPS Mate. Great little addition if you want the GPS to continue sending a signal out to your radio!

 @supafpv1759  oh well then I guess I just didn't get why there's this tiny round thing on there, which looks like a battery. I've set up my gps already and it works great! Really appreciate your work!

I think you may have shorted it out by unplugging the gps while plugged into your computer. On the other hand, usb power is super low but seeing that, that’s the only thing you did before it stopped working I think you shorted the gps. Did you have a battery plugged in too? Cause usually the gps doesn’t get powered on till a battery gets plugged in.

Yea man go ahead what’s your question?

 @supafpv1759  make a video on how to set different music tones on BLheli32 ESC's please

And what GPS would you recommend?

 @MichaelHoughton_  I recommend the one from the video: Beitian 220, if you want more features you can get the 880!

No need to register the gps to any website as far as I know. It locks onto open sattelites, nothing super special or anything. All you need is to get the module and solder it onto your quad/ set it up in beta flight!

You sure you did the beta flight portion correct? That and on the new quad, is the gps in a good spot to see the satellites

 @supafpv1759 .....thanks for your reply but yes I think I've checked all those point on betaflight the drone is working perfect but it's not showing anything of GPS information on the osd it just saids Sat numbers 14....iam not locked iam still able to fly picture is clear....like I said the original gps was broken down on a crash I had a spare one but it was a different brand from a flywoo lr...I just think is probably not compatible with the baby croc

Not to my knowledge no sorry

 @supafpv1759  ma se portasse gli stessi collegamenti si potrebbe tentare?

Any led light suppose to show on it when it power on ?

should not gps for drone have compass?

Il modulo GPS va bene per qualsiasi FC oppure la FC deve essere dotata di barometro integrato? Ho letto da qualche parte che con barometro si comporta meglio in caso di RTH....

could buy a mini magnatic gps tracker  for 10 dollars  ebay

Hi I'm new to building drones, my first build flew away on me today, so defo want to add gps to my next build which is on the way, will this work with a matek f405 std fc ? Thanks

does this also work when you work with the dji goggles and a air unit?

Get a home lock and drive down the road a few miles and l let it fly back autonomously

Dos a gps work on any fc or you need to add something. I think a megnatometer?

Isn't it bad to have your drone on for that long just sitting there? Won't the vtx overheat? I'm new to this whole thing and there's lots to learn

I would have shat myself!

Do you know how to set the GPS to show feet instead of meters?

Holy cold solder Batman! Get a better solder gun dude!

Thanks mate like & sub. Greetings team #bckflp

It works on DJI drones?

TX to RX??? What a fack???

uuuuhhh ummmmm uhhh ummmm

Good video ..But .. How many times do you need to say " Umm "  ?   its a video full of   " Umm's "  .

Why do you have the voice of a teenager and the hands of a 70 year old?

Its not a drone until its got GPS and Autonomous capability, its just a quad/multirotor before that.

too much talking. ill continue look for other videos.

There’s a blue on that blinks

Yes if you want to use all of its capabilities, such as position hold, Loiter ect

Yea man should work, as long as you have enough UARTs on it

 @supafpv1759  Do you recommend getting the module with a compass? Will this be better or will the module you cover in video work fine? Thanks for reply buddy

I believe so, but I’m a little fuzzy in djis equipment since I’ve never used them before

Yes, it works in the same way!

Nah it’ll work lol as long as you got open UARTs

 @supafpv1759  thanks for the quick reply man. Now i can order happily one

Yes, you need to make sure your flight controller has a Barometer on board if you want to be able to use all its features,and also not loose your pride and joy.

 @k1ortia  at the moment all i want is have the ability to come back home. I can add external barometer. But as i know the barometer gives you only the altitude. No more?

Basically you're correct. Many VTX's have a limiting function to lower power when overheated, but don't count on that. Betaflight now has a function where you can put the VTX into 'PIT' mode with a switch which drops the output to a bare minimum. You could set it for 'pit' and 'maximum' output with the switch and go fly. Joshua Bardwell would be the one to ask about this.

Use Imperial settings

Hey! I appreciate it man thanks!

No unfortunately it does not. Unless you’re talking about DJI fpv setups then yea but not on the mavic, phantom, etc. those should all have a return to home feature built in right?

 @supafpv1759  thank you, yes they have RTH but it will be good if you can have a Second GPS to track the Drone mostly for when there are accidents where the drone shuts down and it is no longer possible to track it

Yea it’s weird like that haha

 @supafpv1759  Its actually not once you understand whats going on, Honestly. Rx receives a signal and Tx transmits a signal. So in order for any hardware connected to a Fc it is connected the opposite way, otherwise there would be a conflict between the same signals. Think of it like a magnet, opposites attract. The same repel. TX-TX repels TX-RX attracts. Hope this makes it easier to understand.

 @supafpv1759  ok

You know that,s the cue for a drinking game?.

I guess thats true lol, autonomous capabilities are not quite there yet for the DIY scene haha

 @supafpv1759  I have a number of planes and two quads which are all drones and a quad which isn't , its all about the capability it had that defines it, it confuses the hell out of non hobby people when I tell them my planes are drones ha ha

betaflight 4.4.2 barometer reading like shit😅...look like economy graphic😂😂📈📉📈.....
i nav is ok..but rate feel like turtle..slowly...
now im not using gps ..just release if we fly away...buy new one

