Hey everyone, thanks for watching this video! If you have any questions or comments that you'd like me to see, please leave them under this comment so that I get notified and can respond.  Cheers!

"That's how you rotate to pick up a cow" is a sentence I never thought I'd hear.

As usual, Brian Douglas creates another great video!  I especially like the easy to understand example at 2:46 😉.

where is cow in code in github

Your dedication to the animation is something to behold! You even animated the magnitude of the thrusters 😂

This is the best explanation of LQR I have ever seen. Thank you Brian. :)

this is the funniest video I've ever seen about something related with engineering

I've got a test in two days and your new videos on the topic are like a gift from god 👏🏼

Brian, you can't make things look so easy man. Dope work.

Amazing explanation! Better than 1 year of college!

Hey Brian, what an absolutely mind boggling video. I can now literally explain my Professor what LQR control is all about, thanks to you. Just brilliant! Who says only actors can be superstars? You are one. Thanks a lot.

Excellent illustration

I wish Brian create more tutorials...he is the best.

Best video I have ever seen on youtube

This is definitely a great and simple explanation I've seen so far

Thank you Brian !!! Wonderful explanation !!

These kind of videos can have the universities close their doors, and be left with certification only or distant learning. I mean who needs professors' lectures after this, really. :) I have been familiar with pole placement and LQR for years, but really wanted to find the video explaining it in simple words for my own sake. The whole series is brilliant, I am leaving comment of gratefulness to this one in particular, for the reason I stumbled on it firstly. Great job is a diminutive here.

Awesome as usual !

Wow perfectly explained

I haven't finished the video yet but I found exactly what I was looking for. Thank you for sharing this in such an intuitive way to understand what I am doing haha. Keep shining :D

Hi Brian, it is an excellent tutorial! Will you make another video on Model Predictive Control?

Best presentation. deep knowing and great  experience can be seen on your video

Excellent video! Thank Brian! Do you have any video like this explaining H infinity?

Hey Brian I want to have sound understanding of control system from beginning level so could you  recommend  some books  for  beginning to advanced level.?

Brian, this video is only for regulation, and the controller will push all the system states toward zero, what if you want your states to be pushed toward a particular desired point?
I guess the cost function would be different then, it would be integral(e.T*Q*e + u.T*B*u) right? but how to implement that in matlab using the lqr command ?

Nice video and a good explanation for LQR, but what about Kr? You don't seem to use it in the code and don't explain how to set the value for it?

Hi Brian! Amazing job as always. Now a question... How can I implement this kind of controller in a microcontroller ? Is it possible to implement "by hand"? Tks

I think you're one of the few people that has both deep technical knowledge and communication forte. Those two mashed up makes you probably the best instructor that I've had on this subject. I took a formal controls class that I barely felt I passed. Your approach is extremely effective, by building intuition first then going more into the math. Keep doing what you're doing! I'd love to see your approach to teaching convex optimization. It's been something I've been struggling to get a hang of.

 @pcmori27  Thanks! Convex optimization would be cool.  I'll add that to the (very long) list :)

At 13:49, when you increase priority for angular rate,  the total energy consumed falls in this example.  Is this effect just situational or can it be thought of in an intuitive manner ?  And if so, does that imply that GREATER prioritization of angular rate will ALWAYS result in GREATER energy efficiency (in this example)?   Will this be a correct assumption/conclusion to make ?

Hello Brian! Question at 1:38. You claimed that you can cancel the steady-state error by using feedback from the error. I am a bit confused: if we take a scalar system \dot x=ax+bu and we set u=k(r-x), then we have that the steady-state output becomes xss=-bk/(a-bk)*r. Hence, we can render the steady-state error (for constant set-point values) arbitrarily small by increasing k, but we cannot really cancel it. Or perhaps I missed something? 

Having said that let me congratulate to you as this is hands-down the best educational Control Systems channel I have seen so far!

Hi Brian,
First of all, it's a brilliant explanation and big thanks for that.
Could you share what A, B, C and D are stand for in that specific case? You mentioned it's a "frictionless mass" but I don't really understand the variables. 
And I have the same problem with"Closed loop system" and "Run response to initial condition" phase.
Thanks in advance.

Where is the cow 🐮? Is there anyway to get the code for that as part of the animation?
Thanks for the awesome video!!

Hi Brian, Could you please share the code?

 @verbal.alghooneh  I knew someone would ask and I should have been prepared.  Yes I can ... but the code was written quickly to get this video out so it is horribly written.  I'll get it up on Github shortly and let you know.

It's good to see you on matlab's channel! Loved your videos all along

Cool visualisation! do you know how can i learn to produce visual techniques/animation like you used in the latter part of your code?

Is this the final video of the series !? I was getting so excited to watch the next, your explanation is exceptional! You convey the details of a 2 hour university lecture into 10 minutes!

Such a nice Video buddy! cheers

at the end the LQR still saturated the control signal.....?

THanks for your tutorial ! In the closed-loop system, shouldn't we use ss(A-BK,0,C,D) instead of ss(A-BK,B,C,D)? Because now xdot = (A-BK)x + 0.u. Please correct me if I am wrong !

thank you... your video supports me a lote

Hello Brian, thank you for the great explanation. Could you tell me how you arrived at the mathematical model for actuator effort( for plotting) in your simulation?

Hello Brian hope you are doing well in these Covid times. Was wondering if you are planning on making videos regarding LQI and LQG in the future, or if you (or anyone reading this) has any good sources on the subject. Thank you in advance.

Thanks Brian! Really nice videos! What about run a LQR controller in Arduino? How can I code the discrete version of LQR?

Is there a way to incorporate state and control constraint while solving for LQR? For example, as you showed in the last example the accelerations were very high and so you would think maybe the system cannot provide such a high acceleration.

Hi Brian,
I can measure my disturbance. How can I incorporate that measurement into a state space control structure? I know how to use a feedforward in classical control, but I don't know how to transfer that concept to state space controller design.

A really really great video. Please do continue making such videos if possible.

Thank you for the video, Brian. You are the best!!

Two years ago i learnd a lot about classic control with you, and now you save again, jajajaja excellent video brian¡

I'm really impressed and amazed of how easy u made understanding LQR 😃👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻
Thank u very much

Hi Brian, waiting for a series for Model Predictive Control too!

Brian you are a saint! I was going through lecture notes over and over again, and ending up even more confused. This video made it much more clear. Thank you!

Brian, you make excellent work, thank you so much. I have a question. Can you explain why you added 0.01 term to A matrix. What is the relation between acceleration and the angular position in your model?

Hi, @Brian Douglas your videos about control theory is great , I hope you will talk about MPC controller :)

Hi, I believe the Q is positive semidefinite while R is positive definite, no? or am I wrong here?

Hello im confused as where the input of the system is, lets say I want to move to location x,  and how do I implement this to underactuated system.

Hi Brian, thanks for your lecture on LQR. You and Chris have done a great Job on this. Please my question is on the other diagonal that makes my matrix positive definite or semi positive definite in case of R., How can I choose members  in case for nxn matrix, for n>=3. its easier for 2x2 to just pick any number and repeat it , just like zero if I am using an identity matrix, but for n>3 is my question. Secondly please can you do a video also for MPC?

This video has explained in 15 minutes what I couldn't understand in 2 months of lectures. Seriously Brian, you're amazing

Forever in your debt. I have a question on timestamp 6:49 -> Im trying to make sense of the relationship between the integral equation and it's meaning, which is {the cumulative error of the states plus the cumulative effort of the actuator}. I don't understand how the first part is equivalent to the cumulative error of the states. Are you assuming that the state vectors should be at a reference of 0? That doesn't make much sense to me. Intuitively, I would expect the following to be the way to calculate the error of a state at a given time: steady state required by the reference - current state.

Hi Brian! In the code the lqr() function doesn't seem like it takes the current system state into account when finding K. Wouldn't this mean that K would remain constant? I don't see how this could be an effective controller unless I'm missing something.

Hi Brian,  Excellent video! For the LRQ to be successful,  how accurate does our model have to be?  What do we do when our model is lacking, what are the proposed solutions then?

Yeah 😂😂

Two Legends! I like both this video and your video on LQR control. Your video helped us implement our project for Robot Control in grad school!

 @speedracer1702  Been more than 2 years, but here goes ahah. I am in a robotics undergrad class and we are mainly dealing with PID. Anything cool you can share about LQR control for your robot? What did it do and why did you go with the LQR method? Anything really. Very curious to learn more thanks!

Thank you!

Wow optimal control is amazing!! Way cooler than PID

Nice video...helps a lot to get a clear explanation of optimal control and how to actually use it in a realistic manner.

THAT'S SO HELPFUL!!!!

Fantastic video!

easy and excellent explanation ever ! thanks a lot :)

thank you so much! Your video helped me a lot, while i'm studying MPC

Excellent introduction to LQR. Thank you Brian

You save my credit, thanks a lot

good, easy to understand video. shout out to Professor Lum.

OMG I think I am gonna ace my Controls class now!

Thanks Man !
Your videos are better than whole academic education !! Please create more videos

What an amazing explanation!

I knew it was brian the moment this video started, you are truly an amazing educator, some of your videos built my foundation in control!

Wow! This is exactly what I needed to know to develop interest in this. Cool animation model btw

really awesome explanation, thank you!

The issue  I come across is choosing "optional' values for Q and R.   I prefer pole placement for SISO systems.  It is easy to determine the response and effort.   I usually want to place the poles on the negative real axis.   I can move the poles to the left ( more negative ) until I hit one of two limits.  1 output saturation as mentioned.   However, usually the problem is feed back resolution.  Placing the closed loop pole on the negative real axis does not guarantee that there will be no over shoot.  The closed loop zeros can cause over shoot if the closed loop zeros are closer to the origin than the closed loop polse.   Sometimes the closed loop zeros must be placed too.     LQR has an advantage for MIMO systems.   If the Q matrix is chosen correctly, the closed loop zeros will be close to the close loop poles almost canceling them out and improving performance.

Holy shit, my professor went through all the mathematics that I could'nt even track the concepts. Thank you for this video

Thank you for the explanation ! You made it very easy to understand :)

@Brian Douglas I love you for making these videos!!

Excellent exposition. Good effort. Well done

🤗

Wonderful explanation sir, thank you.

these series of videos are amazing & well described. cheers.

What a wonderful lecture. Thank you so much

watched all 4 parts.. keep up the good work ;)!

Great video! Glad for another reference for LQR intuition and usage!

Brilliant class. I hope I learned control systems from a professor like you. Thanks.

UW AE511 brought me here.  Great video, will be checking out more in the future.

Great video as always Brian!

I'd like to thank Brian for that fantastic take on the LQR explanation. I had understood the math behind it but I hadn't get the intuition I should have gotten while developing my LQR model and now I feel really ready to give it a shot.

Amazing video! Thanks

Great video! Tank u so much👍

Great video with great explanations.

Thank you so much. Your lecture really helped me understanding the control system basics.

Great and simple explanation. Thank you. I hope I will so good and make great videos too.

thank you sir for the great explanation

Just brilliant!

Very good video. Thank you so much for your work.

Wowww. Man I am just amazed. Really been following your videos for a long time. You are awesome!!!!

perfect explanation!

Excellent explanation

Amazing explanation, thank you!

Just great video. Thank you!

Great job, Thank you Brian!

This is a really really good video for understanding the basisc of LQR...thank you so much sir

The video is awesome. Thanks!!

Thank you so much for this video, it's so straight forward and easy to understand ! :)

You are the best!

Thankyou. A big fan of urs control lessons.

Awesome job

loved it 😁

Hope to get lessons on Sliding Mode Controller in up coming days and its application.

UW AE511: Great video, thank you!

thnx bro.....you are the best

Great Video!

Well said👏

such a great video, I like all your other videos on control theory as well, thank you!

It was really nice to see your videos, they were quite helpful as refresh and also maybe to understand better what I studied some years ago. Many thanks!

Obrigado! IFSP- Eng. Controle e Automação-São Paulo Brasil!:goodvibes:

Sooo good!

Awesomenesssss

This is awesome! It's much easier to understand. Thank you!

Another great video Brian, thanks a lot.

Thank you sir.

Thank you!

Hi, Brian your videos about control theory is great , I hope you will talk about MPC controller :)

Brian, I love you

Really good video, content and form, both great! Very enjoyable

The poor cow, but very nice lessons! Thank you! :D

You are just the best tutor on youtube.. thanks ..

Awesome video.  Good starting point and gives a good essence of the subject matter.

What an excellent explanation

beautiful

thanks

You mentioning Lum and Brunton feels like watching Spiderman in Multiverse 😂

wow!! I was strugling so hard to understand the LQR and this video just gave me all the answers! Amazing video. Congrats! Loved the UFO example! hahahha

Introduction to LQR control

I'm studying Control and we have a space-state module which at first it was easy, but gradually getting harder to understand. However, after your videos it really help me a lot since you made it really simple to understand and even gave different methods, but what help me the must its showing how they can be apply to different systems. Now I even think Space-State is actually really cool and would like to learn more about it and even apply it in my personal project and such. Thank you so much.

I got it now! Aliens developed LQR to kidnap cows.

Great frame 3:45 = "you don´t have infinite money to maximize your performance, and, you don´t have unlimited time to minimize your expenses."

As always, great video Brian. I have a question in regard to LQR. Where is the difference between LQR and MPC in a practical and a mathematical way?

Great to hear! I also have a video on the Algebraic Riccati Equation which might help as well: https://youtu.be/ZktL3YjTbB4?si=MWLW8nn0S9zPjjCG

Thanks! Glad you found it helpful.

I wish I could present this way

I appreciate that!

Glad you liked it!

Awesome! Glad you liked it.

What's crazy to me is that Lum and Brunton both live within 20 minutes of me (what are the chances!) and I get to hang out with them occasionally.

​Crazy !  @BrianBDouglas 

That's awesome, I'm glad it helped!

I really appreciate your comment! That's great to hear :)

Why Professers  avoid  this. They tell every thing in abstract way. Thank you Brain. You are great.

AOA sir,
Really love your method of explaining ❤

You could use low gain feedback at the end of the video

Thanks for the awesome video! I just have one question: What if the reference vector and the state vector do not have the same dimensions? In this case a subtraction would not be defined.

why in LQR, we dont need to introduce Kr for reference error any more?

Hello Brian, thank you for the great explanation. Could you tell me how you arrived at the mathematical model for actuator effort( for plotting) in your simulation?

If someone is having problems finding the scaling term, try using simulink to see the step response of the system. Matlab and simulink responses are very different. This might be my mistake mishandling matlab, but if anyone is trying to implement this in a real system and nothing works it might be because of this.  To give you some context the step response in matlab gave me a scaling term of around 3000 while with simulink I get the gain around 1,6 and with this my system works perfectly.

Just found this gem. Where DID the idea of beaming up cows come from, I wonder? Either way, a fun application :-)

It's really interesting and explanations are really nice. I didn't find the R_tuning.m file. Can you tell me where I can find it ? Thank you so much

Sir, just now I have watched this video lecture. Thank you for explaining with the simple terms. I have a question. Why the state should be zero for a observer or other design ? Can you please explain me?

Hey Brian, would it be possible to continue this spacecraft example but using MPC? I'd appreciate it greatly. Love.

Hi Brian, thanks for your lecture on LQR. You and Chris have done a great Job on this. Please my question is on the other diagonal that makes my matrix positive definite or semi positive definite in case of R., How can I choose members  in case for nxn matrix, for n>=3. its easier for 2x2 to just pick any number and repeat it , just like zero if I am using an identity matrix, but for n>3 is my question. Secondly please can you do a video also for MPC?

Hamiltonian? I need help implementing Hamiltonian. 
LQR is built in I've gotten to use it, but don't know how to graph it.
Also, how'd you make the animation? I'd like to do something similar modeling a rocket landing, for example the falcon 9. Help meeeeeee!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Hey Brian, Can you help me about this problem? I am working on 3Omni-wheeled mobile robot. In robot frame X’r=AXr+BU, where Xr=[xr’,yr’,theta’] linear state space model. But I when use global coordinates with rotation matrix R(theta), that’s Xr=R(theta)Xw, then Xr’=R(theta)’Xw+R(theta)Xw”. It becomes non linear model. How can I use LQR controller for control this robot with trajectory tracking? Thanks!!!

Thank you sir.it is known that the  LQR control works with linear systèmes.but we can control a nonlinear physical système like  the  inverted pundelum,TRMS,2DOF HELICOPTERS  with lqr  how is that

great video, from 2024

Where cow?

it seems like the more accurate you construct the state form of the UFO, the more accurate the LQR is. But how could we construct such a precise differential equation for a real system. Thanks

Instead of doing the tweaking of R and Q by hand why dont we automate it , like in the machine learning approach

Excuse me, have anyone tried running the code in MATLAB? Mine is version 2018a and when I try to run it, it detects error on the LQR function. I tried other LQR codes as well, from Katsuhiko Ogata's book for example. Does anyone know how to solve this? Thanks in advance.

Thanks for watching and glad you enjoyed it!

It's been 4 years already? Where did the time go??

does it only work for "unforced" systems? I haven't seen a single tutorial on how to apply, say, a step reference using this, and when I tried it didn't really work.

i'm confused, everyone keep saying the LQR works with kalman filter i thought it should account for state uncertainty in someway, but apparently it doesn't?

Excellent  video as always but why leave out the part about solving the algebraic reccati equation to find the optimal solution to the cost function, since its just matrix maths and doesn't go into the complex derivations ?

Hey Brian, can you recommend some good colleges around the world for MS in Control Systems.

Those who are looking for the same answer then please leave a like so that Brian comes to know.

can Q be zero for same state I dont care about?

Hey Brian, thanks for another fantastic and very informative video. I am curious would it be possible for you to share the code you used in this video? Thanks for taking the time to create these great videos.

Hi, can you explain how the angular acceleration is dependent on the angle by a factor of 0.01? I was thinking dynamics should be like T = I*(angle)'' and no angle terms in it. Thanks for such an amazing video btw

Hi, I believe the Q is positive semidefinite while R is positive definite, no? or am I wrong here?

but.. doesn't spacemen use solar energy?

The cow does not appear in the matlab code... nonetheless absolute great video

Where is the cow 🐮? Is there anyway to get the code for that as part of the animation?
Thanks for the awesome video!!

where can I find the fundation of why I can apply the gain matrix to the state error?
min: 1:35

Sos recontramil groso.

from where I can learn  to play such type of animations in matlab

the matlab code doesnt work for me. I get the following error:
Unrecognized function or variable 'rot'.

@BrianBDouglas Great work! thank you very much.  Question, did I misunderstood this or you didn't have to calculate Kr here because a Kr=1 works fine for this example? other cases we also need to calculate Kr

But animation not running on 2013 edition of MATLAB®

Brian, this video is only for regulation, and the controller will push all the system states toward zero, what if you want your states to be pushed toward a particular desired point?
I guess the cost function would be different then, it would be integral(e.T*Q*e + u.T*B*u) right? but how to implement that in matlab using the lqr command ?

Anyone know why he wrote A-B*K instead of A on line 22 at 15:08 ?

Brian I think I love you

JK...

I know I do

In retrospect that probably would have been better. I didn’t for two reasons though: 1) I usually shoot for 12-15 minute videos and this was getting long and 2) I want to do another video in the future just on this topic. Thanks for the comment.

 @BrianBDouglas   oh an I just want to say thank you for your videos both here and on your channel,  I'm in my 3rd year on a robotics engineering course and I don't know if I would have made it through my 1st year without your videos.

Unfortunately, I haven't kept up with what all of the universities are researching so I wouldn't be a good person to answer, right now.  This would be a good question to ask r/ControlTheory on Reddit.

 @BrianBDouglas  thanks

Here's a GitHub where I posted the code for the UFO animation.  I'll ask MATLAB to place it in the description so others can get to it too if they want.  https://github.com/aerojunkie/control-tools/blob/master/ufo_rotate.m

Thanks for sharing the code, very much appreciated. I look forward to your next video :)

I would like to know this as well, did you figure this out? :-)

Yes, I want the cow code please!

Ha! The cow was a bit of video editing trickery so it's not in the code. But the rest of it does exist in the visualization if you check out the code in the description.

 @BrianBDouglas  , haha well it was awesome! Little stuff like that makes it way more fun, I was going around showing my colleagues! 
Your videos are definitely helping me with OJT. Let me know if you're ever interested in visiting NASA AFRC and maybe giving a talk to our new professionals group and I'll try to coordinate something!

I was looking for that one too, and I did not find anything. If you found any references, please share them with us.

I used the patch command to draw out the UFO.  Then I animated it by updating the XData and YData with my calculated values.  Here's a quick example of moving a square up on the graph:

H = patch([-1 1 1 -1], [-1 -1 1 1], 'b');
axis([-3 3 -3 3]);
for i = 1:10
    pause(0.2);
    H.YData = [-1 -1 1 1] + i/10;
end

same here............

This example doesn't need a Kr term since we're trying to drive all of the states to 0 (regulator). If this was a tracking problem (non-zero states is our goal) then a Kr term could be needed.

Help me please

 @gustavstreicher4867  Hi, thank you for taking your time answering my question. you see you can actually do this when you are constructing the cost function and optimizer by any numerical optimizer, but when you are using matlab, there is a problem, because matlab lqr command expects A,B,Q and R matrices, you dont have the dynamics of the error with the form of edot= Ae+Bu, thats my problem

 @verbal.alghooneh  Hey, I just noticed you actually implied the same thing in your cost function by using e. Sorry about that. I think it doesn't really matter what values you want the states to go to because  the lqr function essentially produces a regulator solution that implies a zeta and wn value. This same damping and natural frequency is present in the natural response as well as in tracking a step input, for example. So the same K solution will work for whatever state reference you are tracking.

Forever in your debt. I have a question on timestamp 6:49 -> Im trying to make sense of the relationship between the integral equation and it's meaning, which is {the cumulative error of the states plus the cumulative effort of the actuator}. I don't understand how the first part is equivalent to the cumulative error of the states. Are you assuming that the state vectors should be at a reference of 0? That doesn't make much sense to me. Intuitively, I would expect the following to be the way to calculate the error of a state at a given time: steady state required by the reference - current state.

Hey, Brian, it has been a while watching your control system videos and they are very useful for the students. I have one dought if you have two gains for a closed-loop system such as controller (actuator), plant, and feedback on how to select best values by LQR method to reduce settling time and maximum peak overshoot. it is possible to plot contour for discrete time-varying models. I am working on rocket pitch dynamics so I need to find best gain values....... I hope you understand my question. thanks a lot, Brian.

That's exactly right! This is a regulator which means it's trying to drive the system states to 0. Like you said, if you want this to follow a reference, you can redefine the origin of your states by subtracting out the reference but this adds in some steady state error which is usually countered with a feedforward term or an integrator. Look up LQI function in MATLAB to see what I mean.

