The timestamps for the different topics covered in the video:

0:43 What is Diode?

1:53 V-I characteristics of Diode

3:57 Ideal Diode and it's V-I characteristics

6:49  The ideal diode with the threshold voltage 

10:04  The ideal diode with a threshold voltage and resistance 

12:41 Piece-wise linear characteristics of the diode

Sir can you share its notes i m betch 2nd year student and i need your notes😢

Thank you Sir, you made it simple and clear for me to understand Diodes.... from South Africa

i came across this channel during my electronics class, and i think i am saved

Not lying.. The best silent explaination ever .. Sir plz.. Keep this up u nailed it...!

bro got student who keeps on answering his questions. can't unhear

You are too good man....loved the way you presented and explained  the video

Thank you very much, I have started liking electronics because of you

this is the exact information i need. perfect video. i love you

very helpful to clear basic concepts of diode.

I'm profoundly thankful for this free high-quality education. so much so that I don't even skip the ads.

Exactly what l needed....
Thanks sir

Sir I really love your videos,  it's too good and you teach in very simple ways,...😇😇😇

Thank you for your great contribution to my education.you are teaching in understandable way.thank you alot

Thank you sir. It was highly informative.

Thank you for your clear explanation brother.

Great video, amazing channel!

This video is very good. Thanks a lot 🙏🙏

Really good video... Very useful... Thank you!

Really impressive and more understandable core concepts, i had learned this basic diode concepts completely and stored on my mind ... Thank you so much sir, from INDIA, TAMIL NADU. 🎉🎉🎉

Sir is it full playlist of analog electronics or not please reply sir bcz I want to start

sir please please please make a vedio on transistor please pnp transistor etc. please sir please

Sir  it is sufficient for gate exam or not

 @nirajkumardubey2193  Yes, this along with the examples will be sufficient for the gate exam. (for diode portion)

In specifications it is performance it is for using as type.

Kam aaj ka

I couldn’t join for membership

 @poojithapooja7696  You mean you want to join the membership and not able to join ?

 @RakeshKumar-jj4jj   is it useful for university exams brother

Hlo bro

Hlo bro

Thanks for details provided in description

Thanks allot for this video. And the playlist too.

thanks sir it is very helpful and i can easily understand the concept❣❣❣❣❣:eyes-pink-heart-shape::eyes-pink-heart-shape::eyes-pink-heart-shape:

YOU ARE GREAT, MAN

Sir nice content but i would wish to get the pdf also

Superb!!

this lect is what i want , very nice lecture sir ❤

Thank you sir very nice gide & very nice best explain diode characteristics teaching video.👍

this should have been the 3rd video in the series. Haven't explained about pn and saying this!!!

Thnqq sirr..reallyy awesome workk

Great video!!

Thank you so much @all about electronics because of you I got all clear in the first attempt itself 🎉 
thank you so much 🙏🏻

yes very helpful thank you

Amazing 💯💯❤️

Thankyou very much❤️❤️❤️❤️

Superb explanations

Best explanation

Very well explained..

Helpfull visdeo

Very informative

please make  detailed course on transistor

This, sir, was amazing! It cleared up many things for me personally, you have a fine method of teaching, that is very much appreciated!

Better than my class teacher ❤

Really tq so much sir..

I really liked your explanation..

Thank you very much sir

Extraordinary

Can you diagram a specific solar circuit if I provide the details? Thank you.

VERY HELPFUL.. THANKS!

If I already have passed the board exam in the future for electrical engineers, I'd be forever grateful to have found this channel somewhere during my undergrad years. Thank you very much! 
Transforming lives, you do.

Nice explaintion ....

Really nice explanation🎉

Very helpful Tq

Will u PLEASE make some video over transistor like 
BJT and FET or MOSFET

Thanks sir

Sir can you plz make the video on different  words uses in electronics with their meaning because many time when I read the book, due to some words I don't understand the concept properly,  so plz make video on different words which are mostly use in electronics...

Very nice

Nice lecture

Good video

sir,
yr video on INTRODUCTION TO DIODE IS ONE AMONGST THE FEW BEST VIDEOS PRODUCED TILL TODAY.
HERE ALL IMP INFORMATION TO BE REMEMBERED ARE BROUGHT OUT VERY CLEARLY AND IS PRAISE WORTHY.
IT IS A WORTH VEDIO TO BE SHOWN IN ALL ITI'S, POLYTECHNIC DIPLOMA, AND ENGG COLLEGE ELECTRONIC STUDENTS.
WELL EXECUTED.
THANKS
S.VATSA, BANGALORE

Is it helpful for Makaut exam ?

thankyou sir

My man

Will you do videos regarding BJT and FET transistors?

Thanks

Sir, plz provide the notes of these lectures it will be very beneficial for us..🙏❤❤

Thank u

Tq

Informative video, how you made this video? which software used for preparation of the slides?

❤️

Very nice video, left a like, HOWEVER if on a mobile device, the subtitle will block the equation

The best video I have seen explaining diodes in an intuitive way that is easy to understand. Subscribed to your channel!

I am actually watching your videos because I wish to learn about solar cells. I understand solar cells are essentially PN junction diodes which is why I am watching your video. Aside from semiconductor physics, diodes, pn junction diodes, what else should I learn about so that I am fully ready to learn about solar cells? 

Would be grateful if you can answer my question :D

sir due to your expert explanation i am starting to gain interest in analog electronics. BJT and FET has also been a doubt. Sir will you do videos on  these topics.

00:00:43 Kono DIOde Da!

May I get the study material? It is helping me a lot. Thanks brother

This video is super informative and presents semiconductors in a digestible format. Thank you!

ur videos are pretty good but u talk too fast
just try to talk slowly so we can understand

In reverse bias the current is not zero.current flows in the order of microamperes.so we neglect it

Sir
May I ask u ..which software do you use for making videos

Good explanation how diode works
Watch this also

It's all what I needed but you are speaking fast , it will be better if u speak little slow.

Buy a book on electronics.

Yes, I am going to start a lecture series on BJT and FET too.

Sir please the dialogue you used to explain should be in downwards it is hard to see the problems you done• it can't be seen in the video so please take action on this

Sir please provide us notes

Hello, I am interested in translating the subtitles to your videos in Greek.

Sir, there's a lecture in between your ads. :)

is there a link to the pdf notes of this channe; ?

Why are we applying ohm's law to find voltage and resistance for a semiconductor???

0:51 Resistor allows current in both directions or doesn't allow current? I didn't understand what you meant to say. Please explain.

awesome superb your understanding is very nice and clear I am assistant professor in ece department but please try to explain more deeply each and every concept you are a gud teacher try to make videos more longer not short

Every thing ok..but speed is very fast and try to speak in hindi...thoda bhut . And try to add numericalas

daiod

mighty mighty MIT

What is Saturation region

1:03

Please put the zener diode and its solved problems videos in this playlist

Special diode??

Are you teaching or reading paragraph... sorry but it took a lot of effort to see whole video

Notes plz sir 
Because it takes a lot of time to note down every point . A 15 min video takes approximately 30 to 40 minutes to note down..

Is this an introduction? I really didn't understand anything

Super sir. Suggest the best book to learn Electronics

Nicely explained...can u tell me..how can one identify the material of the diode by observing the v-i characteristics of a diode?

can you do turkish bro?

I have already made videos on it and have put them in the playlist.
Please check the playlist on the diode, you will get it.
Here is the link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EdUAecpYVWQ&list=PLwjK_iyK4LLBj2yTYPYKFKdF6kIg0ccP2

Listen the class with your own intrest not by your mother or fathers force

 @RakeshKuna-uu3qp   so , one not understanding something is their problem ?
It's the problem of teaching
And who are you to mock free speech
It's the equivalent of bashing a bad review for a film just cuz you like it

 @ragg.v  go to Behzad razavi playlist and understand from him. You wil, understand it better, also check out his book ch 2 to be more accurate.  Then come back to this video. It will get clearer to u.

Electronic Principles by Albert Malvino and Electronic Devices and Circuit Theory by Boylestad / Nashelsky, for understanding the basics.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  okay sir

For, germanium the forward voltage drop is around 0.2 to 0.3V, while for silicon it is 0.6 - 0.7V. 
From the V-I characteristics, the point (on voltage axis) from where the current starts increasing gives the approximate idea of the forward voltage drop of the diode. 
And from that, you can know whether it is silicon or germanium. (For other materials, the voltage drop will be different)

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  thank you sir😊

Why the voltage of diode increase sharply after some time

why silicon is preferred more than germanium inspite of high threshold voltage...?

Is this series is enough for any state government electricity exam ?

Sir can you please publish notes of lectures..?

what will happen if a normal diode enters breakdown region?

11:34 what are you correcting with the "In series with" ?

at 8:06 why is it 10-0.7 ?
pls give the explanation as fast as possible

11:25  what are you correcting with the "In series with Diode" ?

where is the amplifier of small signals ?

Abhe Bhai Hindi me kiyu nhi padaya jab aati h to

Sir are this videos enough for Analog Electronics GATE Preparation?

Is this course fully GATE depended?

Sir u told that for ideal diode it flows the current before threshold voltage.but while the curve representation you shows that current flow after threshold voltage🤔🤔.please explain once it clearly sir🙏🙏

Thank you Sir,
What happens if the diode reaches to breakdown region...  will it get damaged? When the negative voltage is applied the no current flows in circuit then why reverse saturation current occurs?? What is the use of this reverse saturation current??

Don't talk soo fast explain slowly are u gonna catch a train

poo in loo

+ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS  sir are there any videos on zener diode and questions based upon it ?

Sir about opamp, is it finished? Or still left?

is this helpful to prepare for gate exam?

Are these videos sufficient for gate?

That's the characteristics of the diode. Once the applied voltage is more than the barrier potential of the diode, it starts conducting and it offers very low resistance. That's why the current increase  sharply. You can visualise it as controllable switch.

The germanium has more reverse saturation current than silicon at the given temperature and voltage. The reverse saturation current tends to increase with temperature. For germanium, it increases more rapidly than silicon. And moreover, that silicon is available in abundance in nature. So, not only in diode but in almost all semiconductor devices silicon is used.

Diode series ??

yes, very soon.

For normal diode, the breakdown region should be avoided. It can damage the diode.

"across the diode," it should be, in series with the diode, thus the correction.

Because here the diode is assumed to be a silicon diode. And for silicon diode, the typical forward voltage drop is 0.7V.

What I mean to say was, if the equivalent resistance in series with the diode is much more than the diode forward resistance, then for simplicity the diode the resistance can be neglected. 
Diode resistance is typically a few ohms. But the load resistance or the equivalent resistance, in series with the diode, is much more than that, (few kΩ), then diode resistance can be neglected.
In the video, instead of in series, I told across the diode. 
I hope it will clear your doubt.

Please check the playlist of BJT and MOSFET.  You will get it.

Yes, for analog electronics, most of the topics are covered in the playlist(with examples). And the remaining topics will also be covered soon.

Yes, it will be helpful for GATE Preperation

For analysis, different diode approximations are used.
When the diode is considered as the ideal diode, then it will conduct when the voltage between the anode and cathode is positive. (The first approximation)
In the second approximation, it will conduct when the voltage across the diode is greater than the threshold voltage. But otherwise, the diode is ideal. That means after that it will act as a closed switch. (No resistance, hence vertical line)
In the third approximation, the resistance of the diode is also considered during the analysis. 
So, after the threshold voltage, there will be a linear increase in the current. (But still, it is an approximation because actually the current increase exponentially with the voltage)
So, in short, depending on the type of analysis, any of the following approximations are used.
Here during the representation in the curve, I have shown the second approximation where the diode conducts after the threshold voltage.
I hope it will clear your doubt.

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  thank you so much sir.for this brief information🤗🤗🤗.sir please try to do one more video on clipping series circuit example problems (or) if you know any site then suggest me sir

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS   please add this also in discription it will be helpful to others

Yes, If the normal diode is used in the breakdown region for a longer time, then it can damage the diode. Regarding your second question, the reverse saturation current is very small. (typically in uA or even less).
Please go through the next video in the diode series, I have explained that.
Here is the link of the playlist : https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLwjK_iyK4LLBj2yTYPYKFKdF6kIg0ccP2

 @ALLABOUTELECTRONICS  Thank you sir

In the subsequent videos on the diode, it will be covered.

ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS ok Thank you sir

Sir can you increase the frequency of uploading video?

Some topics like precision rectifier and precision clipper and clamper circuit have remained. As it is related to diode application applications. So, I will cover it along with diode applications.

Yes, defintely.

Yes, this along with the solved examples playlist, will definitely help you in the GATE preparation.

Thank you so much sir!

thanks

Tq

thanks

