Support the channel becoming a Patron https://patreon.com/allelectronics

Hmm, are there other channels, where the stuff is explained for non-electronic engineers? I would need somebody to first tell me what all those capacitors are for. I know that voltage and energy flow are displaced by 90 degrees, and I know how to calculate the capacitance. But you start by saying "very simple schematic", but to me as a non-electrical engineer it looks like a bunch of random things connected. IT would really help if somebody would explain it like "the stream of electrons starts to flow in here, then this or that happens at this capacitor, and then at this resistor the power is attentuated by this so that when those 2 streams meet it has this or that effect." But the way you explain it is like, I first have to understand it to understand it with your explanation.

100x times better explanation than at an university.

Fantastic video! Really cool idea with emitter inductor

Great electronic video!! Thank you Mr.Eng. Greg.

Very nice!

Superb !

Thanks for the excellent explanation of this!

Thumbs up for a very nice approach and presentation. I will simulate the circuit to get additional insight, but it would be interesting to compare this approach with one that reduced gain by increasing negative feedback.

0:04

Hey Love your channel, can’t find many others out there like it!

Could you do a video on Automatic Gain Control?  Is it possible to make one with a very wide band frequency response?  I would like to figure out a design that could be used as an attenuator with constant pk-pk amplitude across wide range of frequencies

i saw spanish books in your lab, have you  a channel in spanish too?

Your explanation of this complicated subject is clearly understandable. Thank you!

Also is this applicable for a particular frequency?

Hi great video. I don't understand how you come up with the turns ratio of the coil or auto transformer.

What is the range of the bias voltage on the diode? 0 to 1 volt?

But this will change the frequency response as the gain changes right?

Gregory, is a current mirror with beta helper on the right ?

Tu é paulista?

Why in most rf common emmiter amplifiers we add an inductor to collector for increase impedance or resistance at the collector?? Why don't use just a resistor ???

I'm from India , I'll have to pay in dollars, and how much

Thanks man!

Glad you liked it!

​ @AllElectronicsChannel a bypass cap parallel to emiter resistor woul do the same job right?

Thank you! Glad you enjoyed it.

Glad you enjoyed it!

Very nice, come back with the results !

Thanks! Nice topic. Probably a diode detector and a PIN attenuator should get good bandwidth response

 @AllElectronicsChannel  Never used any specific components like PIN diodes before, I’m always trying to develop strategies with just BJTs the hard way :) and I always use breadboards, but seriously need to move to pcbs for RF projects soon.  

But on a breadboard I have built a 27, 56, and even recently a 227MHz transmitter and receiver with just BJTs and typical passive components all on a breadboard.  Simple on/off is all.  The 227MHz transceiver was quite unstable as you might imagine though and only had a range of up to 7ft basically at best, but quite cool it worked at all on breadboard, it was super-heterodyne type, single stage mixer, IF of 1-10MHz (very unstable of course).  It’s really a challenge when the whole supply rail has 200mVpp noise at 227MHz and any inductors above 5uH act more like large caps and several insulated rows 5 spaces apart or even 10 acts as a pretty good coupling capacitor haha very frustrating to work with breadboards at RF but it can be done somewhat.

Hi friend! It is not Spanish hehe

Welcome!

I'm designed it for 4.9MHz

Turn ratio for a normal transformer would be sqrt(Za / Zb), for an auto transformer you subtract 1 (to consider the primary as part of the secondary also)

 @AllElectronicsChannel  Would you show the calculation please?

0 to 1mA, 0 to 10V

Yep!! Would be nice to take a look on a broader span

It is!

This is called inductive peaking. It will enhance the bandwidth of the amplifier, creating a little more gain at higher frequencies, compensating a little the natural rolloff of the amplifier.

 @AllElectronicsChannel  thanks

hello, nice circuit, I also did two calculations and I believe you have a very good gain, using that polarization you have more than 500 of hfe with that model of transistor, pero one thing I can't understand, the ratio of the auto transformer why you chose that number of turns for a 700 ohm at 50 ohm, are you sure? that you leave 2 mA to the transitor not to saturate it and the remaining of 10 mA for the output with a 50 ohm load?

thumbs up, i have a signal of -45 db at 122mhz, how best do i amplify the signal to up to 20db

I want to be knowledgeable like you in electronics , guide me

The video is good but your soldering skills need a check

Very nice!

Hi Matteo, with the ratio I used on practice we are using a little more current, using a litter lower collector impedance. The beta of the transistor is much lower at higher frequencies, you can aproximate by Hfe / f

 @AllElectronicsChannel  an figured out for hfe, and is there a rough calculation to know how many turns you need to have to have a ratio from 700 ohms to 50 ohms?  because I thought it was 14:1, then maybe I'm wrong

I think that any modern transistor can accomplish that. Take a look at BFR92A

 @AllElectronicsChannel  thanks

 @MrDacorp  I'm an EE student but I would like to have recommendations on books courses etc.

 @complex_variation  Sir please suggest some books  , covering basic knowledge  to advance

Watch, like , subscribe, and don't forget to comment.

hahahaha

