When looking at a datasheet, do NOT use the value of Vgs in the section "Absolute Max." This section is for conditions that will damage the MOSFET. More information here: https://discuss.addohms.com/t/what-does-absolute-max-mean/72

finally... someone explained how to select the mosfet in practice... in university they are all about calculating amplification, working of a mosfet in molecular level, etc. but they won't tell simple things like these, which are super important when using and selecting the transistor in practice. Thank you, sir!

Excellent!  Finally someone covered the stuff one actually needs to know for their projects.  I'm trying to buy a MOSFET, not design one.

This is, BY FAR, the most comprehensive and accurate tutorial for MOSFETs on YouTube.

Crystal-clear MOSFET lecture—concise, accurate, and super practical. Thank you for sharing! 🙌📘

Great Vid with no annoying background music. Subscribed

I have years watching electronic videos on youtube, and  i can tell maybe 5 are the channels that are actually worth to watch, this is one of them..great job mate

I love it how you broke down the complex systems into easy to understand simplicity. That, and the random humor helps keep things interesting.

Bro i have never seen the one like you teaching clearly how to used and with specs how to Calculate thats a genius❤

this is a great video. really enjoyed how you not only explained the functionality of MOSFETs but how to actually use them in a real-world application. thats something i wasn't taught when i was in school (not sure why though).

10 yrs later, still funny intro, and thanks for the explanation

Hi James. This Channel is one of the BEST anyone can find in YouTube.
I really like your videos. My reasons:
1) Your diction is great, extremely clear, well articulated. 
2) You have music ONLY in a few spots, which I consider that is perfect. I hate those tutorials when it’s almost impossible hear what the person is saying.
3) You visual and graphics material are of the super highest quality.
4) Once in a while a joke is perfect, as an “ice breaker”. 
5) You have a great respect for your audience.
A+++ 👍 I subscribed to your Channel & Turned On the notifications.
Congratulations!

Thx, finally a beginner oriented and well explained tutorial.

When you started talking about mosses I just rolled with it. really shows how easily zoned out I can be :P

This is the best transistor explanation I have heard to date.

Great Video - after 40 years as an EE I now understand MOSFETs a whole lot better.

I like your teaching style.  It's easily understandable with no silliness.  Thank you

My uncle is an Electrical Engineer. I have asked him many times about mosfets as I have been watching him working on circuits since my childhood. But every time his lectures just flew over my head. Then I searched youtube and got my answer.

This is my favorite AddOhms video.  The viewer KNOWS they need a MOSFET and you show them how to use the data sheet to select one.  The review is a nice touch too.

Good video, you have another subscriber. Keep up the good work.

Excellent video! I think there is one small typo though. At 2:19 my text book shows that you drew the schematic for the D-MOSFET and said it was the E-MOSFET.  Maybe some people use that symbol for both as a shorthand. Super video. Thanks!

I look at the Vgs and even the Vbe on BJT as what will kill it, and have put an LED on that location between base to emitter or gate to source to prevent the damage, as even a BJT can have too high of a voltage when there is not enough load on the collector when in darlington configuration. Best designs are ones that take into account what might happen to cause failure, then if something unusual happens it does not die on you.

Ha ha !!!

AddOhms a

One question,  we are working with a 2n7000 n channel transistor and in the drain caracteristics grafic states that the id max its reach at Vgs=10v with 1.5ma aprox. why its this, isnt it supose to be at Vgs=0v idss?

Hi

Traslate to pt-BR, please..

 @DaniloAlves-vy2od  Tem legendas em espanhol.

I agree, I just knew they were voltage controlled -_- This guy taught me so much in 7 minutes, I really liked the datasheet part (at school they just throw questions and say to use the datasheet, but not explain what to look for or determine if a heat sink would be required)

I failed Electronics as a subject and hated it for its Transfer Functions, but I could build any circuit I chose to. Damn lecturer was as boring as mud

........I remember those type of textbooks.. It's important to have a play with the components to get familiarized. I'm surprised how many people don't know a simple set up with a p and n channel  jfet that results in a tunnel diode effect but when I first came across this simple circuit I just had to try it out and it produces excellent sine waves according to my hearing perception.

And I failed my first job interview right after college, because of what you guys are saying here. Those college courses are quite useless in getting most jobs in the commercial world.

 @williamwoo1437  Thank you for this comment. I have a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering and I must say that most institutions are not really teaching students what’s important but rather basic knowledge. I have been working tirelessly to understand every electronic component because it’s fascinating to me how electricity works, from high voltage to internet. It’s all electricity. The passion for this knowledge and topic is all that keeps me going. Otherwise, the industry has no use for some graduates, the workload is enormous and some processes are money making rather than creating knowledge. I hope this will improve soon because „learning on the job“ is the best way to solve a lot of the problems in engineering.

 dylans voice  yup cheaper too 💀

Yes.  University always seemed to get it backwards.  Explain in great detail and with a lot of heavy math how things work and then leave you to figure out the practical applications on your own because, well, that’d seem too easy I guess.  Then on the job one wonders why someone with a 2 year technical degree or military experience runs rings around them in solving real-world practical problems.  So the engineer inevitably gets frustrated and career pivots to management.

 dylans voice  Which is why some companies are moving away from schools. Had an interview taking 3 hours of an online quiz, had questions from basic programming to PCB design. They had open internet and said go for it. We will contact you if you are selected after it was completed. 

Overall, the best interview I could say that I had, I also believe they had 7-8 other candidates taking the test, we were all spaced like 15 minutes apart to have the 1 on 1 personal questions.

University taught me to be a very broke educated idiot. Honestly, an engineering degree is hardly beneficial to being an engineer. I learn more on YouTube while testing the septic system than I did in school!

Dude it’s because those teachers don’t want you to learn. They just want your money. I was majoring in chemistry and dropped out because cal 3 killed me. Oh well, learned more outside of school because I took it upon myself to utilize the web while we still have it. The driving force of electricity is what spawned life when the universe was created. Same driving force behind water, that’s why water analogy is makes sense. The way I see it, anyone can learn this stuff, as all calculations thus far in all of the science disciplines (including the list of nature’s constants) are calculations found by fellow human beings; hence anyone can do it. 
Funny how people say that science proves the absence of god. In my humbled opinion,  space is the canvas for God to create the things God wishes to create. We will never learn the complete truth as far as why we are here. We simply aren’t physically capable of even trying to understand. Humans are too smart for our own good. Keep up your studies, bc the more you learn, the more liberated you will become. The more your eyes will open to the deception of people.

I'm making t-shirts that say "I'm trying to buy a MOSFET, not design one."  That expresses my - an many people's - frustrations perfectly, and why I also very much appreciate this video even 8 years later!

😂

"Most accurate..." except for the part where I draw a depletion mode symbol while explicitly stating it is an enhancement mode symbol. ;)

School is the slow way to learn :/

I took eet in college many years ago.  This 7.45 minute video is worth  2 hours of class time as far as I am concerned.  The classes I took were not bad, it is just that there was an extreme reluctance to get into anything practical.

Same. I took many EE classes in school, but I learned more from 10 hours on YouTube.

Schools are to teach you how to follow instruction, obey orders and shape you to become a factory worker or employees. The rest, you learn yourselves. Awesome schools to rip off tens of thousands from kids and adults.

Schools are good at teaching conceptual theory, and other general smarts, but not so much at real life applications, especially in high tech fields where new developments happen at break neck speed.  No matter how many YouTube videos you have watched, it won't give you an accredited certificate to get a high paying job.  If you were to put on  LinkedIn "I've watched all the transistor videos the 'bald-guy' has ever made." probably won't get you a callback.  But the combination of the two are like the best of both worlds. Your mileage may vary... ;)

youre absolutely right, the truly deal is out  there, were's  the real troubles are,

not sure why? Pretty sure it is because the teachers usually don't know.

Well using them in a small project in class is more difficult plus some also has sensitivity to ESD which isn't good for a class that may not use precautions

People are usually thinking they should be doing something else, teachers are no exception.

 @Noogleminus  Thanks a lot for your comment, made me understand more about this subject :)

Do you guys had electronic classes in high school? Or are you talking about college?

That was my complaint in college. All math and theory but no real world applications to go with it...especially when learning AC theory. It would have made it so much more interesting and easier to understand.

Sorry I don't understand?

Probably one of the best tutorial on MOSFETs on the Internet. Thanks for sharing...

Nice video. Love the 'autorouter' shirt. ^_^

In just a couple minutes, you have explained clearly the selection and the application of MosFET. Thank you!

Great video, very well produced! :)

Excellent clear concise and not oversimplified

Thank you for making these videos because you don't just throw equations at us but you explain how fets mechanically works and then use the V,R I's in equations but they're within the context of your tutorials.

Concise, a classic I have to re-watch every so often.

You know you are into electrics when you have a favorite type of transistor.

This should be the only video found for the term "mosfet usage". Thank you!

Wow, what a fantastic video. Great stuff, very helpful

Best video about mosfets on all of youtube. 
Thank you James 🙏

Very well done tutorial, I am pleased it was suggested by youtube. subscribed.

Excellent video,  explained in simple terms

Thank you for making this video so much, good sir! I wish that my radio lab instructor could explain all the concepts as clearly as you did in less than 10 minutes. You got a real gift.

You explanations are excellent and very easy to understand.

I think I found my "Youtube channel". Thanks, sir.

One of the best videos on mosfets, thank you!

Your MOSFET guide/worksheet is great.  So are your videos.  The guide/worksheet has helped me immensely with an IRF540.

Wow, It is an precision introduction of BJT and MOSFET

Thank you.  While I knew the basics in general, your video here showed me what I was getting wrong and what I was getting right.  Now that I know how to interpret a datasheet correctly and what to look for, I can make better decisions for designs.  

That's all I am looking for is plain spoken direct explanations.

At  0:28  The other says "I'll get H2O" too ... the second guy might die, but at least he'll be disinfected by H peroxide. ;)

My professor talked about this but with you assistance this now makes clear sense.

I really do like your approach to teaching this concept.

Very easy to understand and the anecdote at the beginning was a good way to diffuse any tension when learning new concepts.

I love that you make the connections between the datasheet and the behaviour! So great!

Simple but Clear explanation. Thanks.

We are waiting for a lesson about IGBT!

Really well explained and easy to understand.   Thanks.

Hey man, thanks for the videos! They're not only clear, but the production is pretty good. Keep 'em coming, they're much appreciated.

I like this video.  Very well scripted, and illustrated.

I was so impressed I subscribed before the video ended. Keep up the good work.

Well explained and really simple to understand, good job

When you started explaining about moss i really thought there was a deeper connection between Mosfets and moss and started having all sorts of imagination about how it could be related....

Awesome simple explanation/app note.  Quick, fast, cheat-sheet style.  love it!

30 seconds in and I've seen an engineer with an efficient hairstyle, information on transistors and MOSFETs and seen an intro.. subbed!

You just explained what 5 of my university professors couldn't. Thank you. At last

Great explanation about heat. Thanks, it is often overlooked  because it is confusing, but your explanation was superb. Thanks!

Great video, showing the datasheets is awesome as it's the way we would need to look for them too. Great video.

I've been trying to increase my limited Electrical knowledge, and your videos are some of the most informative and easily understood. The fact that you back them up with fact/cheat sheets on your website is really a nice touch. Look forward to some more videos from you in the future, they've done me a lot of good. Thanks

This is video is gold, I feel lucky for finding you channel. Thanks for the excellent explanation 😀

Excellent, just excellent and very well illustrated.

Man I love this stuff.  I should have become an electrical engineer, I find all this so interesting.

Thanks for your simple explanation  MOSFET

I agree!!! Sometimes I wish there was a pause button to push to slow down professors, or a please make this clear button - no such luck!!

dito. superb video

Same here, I agree.

Just don't forget that the ambient temperature won't always be 25°C. If the installation is some cupboard next to a south-facing window, you can bet that it'll get up to 45 in there and let the smoke out.

What did you do instead?

Same here , I choose IT instead.

I still think those depletion mode mosfets each contain a tiny little vacuum tube

another excellent video. clearly illustrated and explained

Great video. You put in lot of effort into doing this and will greatly benefit lot of beginners. Kudos.

Nice explanation! Not too much information unlike other channels! Great work!

Yeah, liked the H2O2 joke! The old ones are always the best ones!

Information and graphics are first class, well worth the time. Thanks

0:28 I get it, the second man drank hydrogen peroxide.

this video is riddiculously amazing. thank you very much.

Absolutely professional Video! Thank you!

Short sweet... and brilliantly explained! Thanks! You absolute Legend 😀

Regarding the 2 guys in the bar ordering H2O, the second guy dies because he ordered Hydrogen Peroxide H2O2(too).

Excellent video. These are very informative and easy to follow.

dont forget the Boba FETs

Just awesome, so short, so compact, and yet "all" you need to know. Thank you very much!

Love the hydrgen peroxide joke in the intro.

Here another one:

There are only 10 kinds of people, those that understand binary and those that don't.

...my very first YT comment....  You have the most captivating presentation style and use of transitions and tricks EVER!! ciao, lm

Great video, subscribed!

That MOSFET worksheet is incredibly handy!  Thanks!!!

Brilliant! Very nicely illustrated.
By the way, do you perhaps know how to dimension the external gate resistance to a mosfet driver? I'm having a really hard time finding anything about this.

Awesome.This is the biggest crossover from IoT to high power application.

@voltixD
yeah.. we know,  thanks  hehe
when you have to explain a joke like this, it's no longer funny

i mean, the joke on it's own is not really that funny to begin with
let alone if someone has to explain it

like..    OOOOOOOOHHHMMMM   - Join the resistance
or
there are 10 types of people in the world, those that understand binary and those that don't

stuff like that
it's not funny if it needs to be explained

Ba dum bump.

It's not actually a fuel, it is an oxidizer

 @agustinothadeus  It is fuel for a jetpack.

Alcohol is the SLOW death! L0L H2O2 in very small doses is actually very healthy. It's like ROCKET FUEL for the body. I know, I been using it for over 30 years.

Medicinal Hydrogen Peroxide is only 3%...not the same as fuel oxidizer.

Did you hear the one about the 3 bald engineers that walked into a bar?


Me neither.

11 was a race horse, 22 was 1 2, 11 1 1 race, 22 1 1 2

kind of!!

Pure H2O2 is rocket fuel.

I had to read that 3 times to get it. is that bad  ?

 @TheProCactus  no, that's probably a good thing, you can use the language correctly -- as in "too" is not "two"

voltixD thanks!!

voltixD . Hahahahaha

TheProCactus too bad.

Actually, it's 11, those that understand binary, those that don't and those that know tristate

Hello.

Hey!

same!

Me too.

Sveinn Grétarsson why are you trying to determine that?

It's fine, I finally found a decent article covering this. The reason is that I am currently working on a hydraulic solenoid valve driver circuit which used a 200V mosfet as a switch, and used a mosfet driver (LM5112MY) as gate driver. The applicaiton note of the driver stated that an external gate resistance should be used, but never mentioned any guidelines as to how it should be determined.

It is ofcourse just an RC circuit, of which you determine the resistance to get a predefined time constant. Silly me. :)

Moss...I lol'd!

I should say it's just an excellent video with cent % clear concept.

Great video. However, almost nobody talks about the necessity of using a resistor between the gate and the ground to sink the current trapped in the gate and for turning the mosfet off properly in any mosfet video on youtube... 

A good video tells you what you want. A great video what you need. This is a great (& good) video. Respect.

Very nice and unusual presentation, clear script too.
Liked the joke but I now need to find out what chemical H2O2 is.
Your picture of the Enhancement MOSFET @2:17 is blured and looks more like a Depletion mode type. Could cause confusion..... 
Sub'd...........

This tut was beyond what I've expected :) nice one...

I wasted about 1h in googling some informations abour BJTs and/or MOSFETs. And now after more than the half of the time, I got what I need. Thanks man! :-)

your presentation impressed me to proceed with mosfets. awaiting further about mosfet application.

Thank you very much Sir. -from Tanzania East Africa

Great video! Gets right into practical application to show you how to select the device that will work for your circuit. Love it! Please keep this kind of content up!

That TShirt is genius. The lesson was also great. Thanks Bald man.

Good job explaining, clear, concise and truly informative.  Keep up the good work!

Holy moly, great video my  man! Very detailed and I appreciate that you have even more information linked to your own website! You've most definitely earned my subscription! Thank you!

Fantastic video, full of clear information. Thanks a million !

A lot of videos on MOSFETs goes into too much details and ended up confusing. But this is perfect, just enough of what I need to know. Thanks!

Nice video. Well thought out. Clear and practical. I like the introduction of the data sheet.

Practice hands on learning

Now THIS is how an instructional video SHOULD be! Awesome work, have subscribed. You taught me more in a couple of minutes than all the so called forum experts and their arguing and sniping at each other! Just THANK YOU!!!

Great introduction to MOSFETs!

amazing video
taught me more about this wonderful invention in 6 mins then professors have over the past 4 years...

Fantastic video- first thing I found which actually helped me to put the MOSFET into practice myself. Thank you so much

LOL

Excellent point.  It's something I already planned to cover in the future.  However, it is exactly why I at at least included in the schematic, to hopefully prompt the question "why is it there?"

This is not a hidden secret of electronics. However, I have learnt that the hard way after hours of google search and experimenting. And sometimes such small details can be really demotivating for an hobbyist or a beginner... It would be good, if you can cover this in the next mosfet video.

Wow, thanks so much! Was wondering what I was doing wrong. Any idea what type of resistor is needed to ground (I put in a 2k which seemed to work fine). Also, I assume there should also be a small resistor from the positive voltage to the gate as drawn.

+Michael Hawthorne 
Aahh the wonders of Google.... H2O2.... Hydrogen Peroxide.

+Michael Hawthorne Yeah, I drew it wrong.

H2O2 his hydrogen peroxide 
the chemical which caused the disaster resulting in the sinking of  submarine Kursk

I doubt it! Western Media Story. My guess is that those rumors about an accident (collision) between Trident US Navy submarine and Kursk are more true than not. These collisions happen all the time, they are just not reported about. Often in Black Sea. Often between ships, less likely submarines. I am fine with these collisions being kept in semi-secret mode. There is one story for the public, another for inner circle.  Sadly, this makes sense as most people are no longer capable of critical thinking. "Democracy is based upon the conviction that there are extraordinary possibilities in ordinary people."
- Harry Emerson Fosdick

maybe consider putting a note in the description?

A compound that makes ur white shirt whiter 😬

i agree

Great video. Thanks for taking the time to make it.

Simply great way to teach Fast and Easy. Thank You.

Very informative short video. Keep up the good work!

This video was so helpful ! I was having alot of trouble understanding the MOSFETs

This was so well explained, thank-you.

Clear has glass description, excellent. Thank you so much.

Awesome T-Shirt!!!! Thanks for the tutorial, it was a nice refresher!

i love this tutorial. very informative, clear and the presentation is baldly awesome.

thanks a lot, watched a bunch of videos on this to try find the info i needed, but they missed lots of the key info i was looking for, and yours had it!

this was very helpful and easy to follow, 
the video was straight to the point  =] thank you.

Great video. This is one of the excellent  tutorial on MOSFETs

This video is great!! i was searching for something like this to know about mosfets and i really didn´t expect to find such a good video. Greetings from uruguay!!

Thanks James! Got here from Rossmann Repair Group. Thanks  so very much and keep up the fantastic commentary! B'H.

pretty easy to understand the way you Explain Friend.

Thank you. That was very well explained and easy to follow.

thank you for the video, it is exactly what I was looking for!

My brain exploded from the explanation! Great video, just new to electronics!

Love the humor! Great MOSFET video!

Great Video. Excellent T-Shirt !

Excellent work! Loved the worksheet!

Excellent video. Very easy to understand — Thanks!

best explanation on Youtube
thanks a lot!

Just ran across your channel and I am so glad.  Love your training material and presentation.  As an instructor, I may a little fussier about videos, yours are great.  Never seen whiteboard style like this.  I also learned more about what I didn't know about MOSFETs in less than 10 minutes.  I am a new subscriber.  Keep broadcasting!!

Finaly someone who makes sense

Thank you for the great video.  Love the format

You are awesome! Made everything so straightforward!

amazing website notes man, appreciated.

Fantastic information thank you. I’m finally starting to understand MOSFETs. I will have to watch this a couple more times and I will be subscribing.

Great video, really learned a lot. Like you summing up at the end. Thank you kind sir

Greatest and easiest explanation so far. Thank you! Good job.

Wonderful instruction. Thank you James.

Great video! explaining the datasheet helps a lot in my understanding.

Great presentation. Good job!

First time watching one of your videos...slick and well done.

Great tutorial. So simple.

Excellent work! Thank you.

Finally understood mosfet!!!! Thank you so much sir ☺☺

Cool video....very nicely practically explained

I really enjoy the video and learned a lot in little time. I wish most of the tutorials were like this one. I would say people empowering people !!! THANKS  ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

This is a very informative video.

Absolutely excellent! Thank you for making this clear and understandable video 😀

from northen norway. love your videos high quality end easy to understand. keep up the good work.

I just followed this and got my mosfet working, thanks. I'll check out your Patreon

THANK YOU for an informative video.  Much appreciated.

Absolutely wonderful video man. Would love to see this education approach on how to implement high and low side switches using MOSFETS

Fantastic video, thank for your explanation of mosfets.

Just found your channel. Even though I'm not an english native, this video helped me a lot to get into this. You got my sub.

Great video. So glad I've found your videos.

A great video and very good explanation

Very clearly explained video.

Great video. Thanks. I learned a lot easily and quickly. Nice set of production values as well.

i enjoyed the bit you said about tree moss. very intersting

arayıpta bulamadıgım bililerdi. teşekkürler

Subscribed immediately, great video!

Thank you so much for the explanation of details of which up until now eluded me due to the language used when studying previously. Now everything just clicked! Saved your video for future reference, just so easy to understand. Many thanks, wish you all the best.

That was funny, entertaining and very useful.

I wish the professor at the university had explained this as great as you did!!! :)
Thank you!!!

Outstanding explanation

Very helpful and fun to watch. Many thanks!!!

I just now found this channel. wow. Subed and liked on FB. Keep up the good work

Thanks! this video was very helpful and easy to follow.

I learned a lot that I didn’t know before 👍👍👍👍👍

Wonderfull video - very clear. Please keep'em comming.

Cool guide! Thanks!

Thanks for the video. I was very helpful,
especially the part on when a heat sink is needed.
(That was news to me)

Thanks alot! English is not my mother tongue, but its much more clearer then in school learned by a teacher :)

Good video.Keep up the good work

useful, and simple explanation, Thanks alot

FINALLY A VIDEO THAT ACTUALLY TEACHES HOW TO SELECT A MOSFET!
Anyways, great video👏.

Very clear tutorial  thanks very much

Great and Clear to learn. Thanks.

Absolutely brilliant video! Thank you.

Great video, really love the animations you use and the information is very helpful, thanks. Subscribed. :)

Thanks for the great video. Very informative!

Good explanation and a great video making

Thanks so much for this tutorial. I see it's been here awhile but I plan to start using them so I can scale up my robots. Explaining the datasheet was great info.

Nice, right depth thanks.

thanks so much maestro, very useful parameters of this devices,

Excellent informative video, keep up the good work.

Nicely done.  Thank you.

Yoooooo that PDF is Amazing for learning this. Thank you!!!! And a awesome video

Great video!

This was a really good video, even if it's several years old by now. I'm just learning about MOSFETs and I was unsure on how to calculate the heat-dissipation thing, but you made it pretty damn easy and clear. I also quite enjoy your style of presentation here. I suppose I should check out the rest of your videos for more good stuff!

Really good stuff, thanks for the video!

Your first sentence got me to subscribe

Thank you thank you thank you. This old ME was able to cobble together a switch using a proximity sensor as the trigger.

I had no access to videos like these nor invested teachers back when I took electronics in high school. Seeing it taught like this makes me realize how different my education could have been... how different I could have been.

There should be a government subsidy to pay YouTubers for producing educational content that can replace classroom lectures.

hi james good info about in depth to carry mosfet datasheets.

Excellent tutorial.

Great video man!

You're a legend and I love everything about you. Keep educating us you awesome person!

Great video and helped me plan for a small project I am about to do with my son. I am learning so this video helped me to plan the h-bridges we need to build.

Great presentation! Thank you! It's helped me a lot!!!

Recently I have subscribed.
Let me say thank you very much for both, your useful information and multimedia material.
Saludos desde México!!!!!

Great video. Thank you so much.

Fantastic explanation

Late to the party, but I really like this presentation. Smooth and professional. Great!

I'm from Indonesia. Thank you sir for your explanation

Nice and clear video thx!!!

Fantastic video!

Glad it helped!

Thanks mate !!! Really a good and useful video!!! Subscribed!!

outstanding video...  good work!

Excellent instructional video. Thanks!!!

Very useful Video. Thank you very much

This helped a ton thanks

Good job! Got a lot of useful info out of your videos!

Great video, very useful, thanks

Very very very useful. Thanks.

that was a proper tutorial

Great tutorial. Thanks.

Great video, please keep up the good work :)

Great video sir.

Clearly nice explantion. Thanks 4 upload.

Hey Jim as a pcb designer love that shirt!!! Nice videos...hope to see a mosfet part 2.

Great video, thanks for the good work!

Awesome explanation. Thanks.

Excellent Video!

Great explanation! Thanks

Excellent video.

Thanks a lot for the explanation

OMG, 5 stars plus Like and Subscribe.  This is PERFECT in terms of content and length.  Thank you!!!

Great video, and great job!

I've used the 2N3904 BJT extensively in the past.  That transistor has been around for decades.

saltue to this video maker, amazing edit and easy to understand

very informative. thanks for this video

Very interesting and clear, useful info! Thanks! Subscribed!

this is awesome .. so so clear . THANK YOU :)

Dude. Thank you. Teach me more! My god you are good! Subscribed... now going to watch all videos... thank you for you wonderful fountain of knowledge.

Excellent.  Succinct and to the point, and gives you a logical approach to choosing a MOSFET that meets your switch application requirements.  If only the manufacturers and/or distributors would put a tool on their web pages to help you make a selection using this approach!

Thanks, you did a great video, excellent explanation!

Explained really well man thanks

Amazing video!!!
Thank you so much!
Greetings from Ecuador

Thank you for the lesson!!

I just started it and already love it :D

This is interesting as I was in electronics back in the tube and transistor era. I have been out of it for so long.

A very helpful video. Thank you!!

Dude you are a legend

Pure value, subscribed!

I'm from Brazil, I liked your channel. Thank you.

I really appreciate the moss joke. I'm interpreting it as a reference to how so  many of these videos or articles go straight down into the weeds of stuff you really don't seem to need to know to get started learning how to use these things.

Thanks, but you put more thought into it than I did. I just wanted to point out the videos are scripted. People are often ask: "how do I make videos like yours?!" I always say: "start by writing a script."

A really cool feature of FETs is that many of the enhancement mode type can be triggered and stay triggered with nothing connected to the gate! That’s also it’s downfall as a FET in an SMPS can stay triggered and pop if a suitable gate resister isn’t used to stabilize off time.

From one who appreciates the same hair style and science, great work and best regards, Dr Dave, WS0D

Great explanation. Thanks!

A very helpful video.. Thank you very much!

Thanks for sharing. made things easier!

Nicely done sir. Thank you.

gre at and lovely way of explanation, thanks

Great explanation

best explanation ever

Wow good video, just found your channel and I am about to watch a lot of your vids and give loads of likes! I appreciate the work you put in so much, therefor a HUGH THANK YOU to you!

Really nice explanation...

Thank you for this 😊

Thanks 
Very clear work

Explained good. thanks for sharing ur knowledge

Great job man

Wow that video was incredible! You just got a new subscriber :)

Great video! Really informative.

Great video!

cool 
thanks man 
good informations in your video

Wow, this channel is really usefull

Great explanation! Thank you

Great explanations sir. Thank you.

This was great! Thanks.

Thank you for the video. Very useful

all clear! great vídeo!!

Just found your channel and subscribed. Really informative thank you

EXCELLENT  ADDOHMS! !!

thank you alot ! It was pretty helpful :)

Very well made video

great video! thanks man

awesome presentation .. thumbs up

Well explained, thanks !

Great video!

Very professional!

Great job!

I love this channel!!

Great Video!

Great video!!

Thank you, sir!

thanks , good video and presentation

Plz cover the IGBT sir.
Great video, it's short, clear and to the point.

Hello. !!Excellent!!  tutorial. !!Greetings from colombia!!

You are amazing ! Thank you very much

Thank you sir, I was actually using a mosfet driver from microchip to drive some mosfets then ran across your video about the FQP30N06L being logic level, you just reduced my parts count by 2

Con mi poco inglés aprendí más con este video que en las clases de mi escuela. You get my like!

Great job!

Awesome video.

I love the way you present, to the point well done. Good sound quality too for us old guys. I took electronics for 3 years but still need a refresher now and then.  Thanks.

thanks im in a auto program with alot of electrical work this helped alot!!!

very useful video!!

Thank you for your help

Thanks for the share.

Thanks, some old video and I finaly understand how to calculate the heatsink stuff.

amazing video!

Very nice explaination

Very Useful. thanks

Everything is interesting to learn new things

Thanks for the video!

your explanation is good...you have one more subscriber :)

Cool video, thanks :)

+Robby De nada

Thanks.

Thank you very much for such a great explanations. Very well detailed.  My congratulations and regards from Venezuela

Amazing video

Very good stuff

GREAT VIDEOS !!!

Very Very good ...Thank you

I thought I was watching the wrong video lol.
Thanks for the fun explanation.

thumbs up for the Moss.

thanks a lot ...  very helpful video

very helpful. thanks

I love your videos.

Soon as he said " Hi, I'm james. The bald engineer"... Liked! lmao

Very good video.

Great tutorial thanks I've subscribed. 

awesome video so effin good

Very informative video and loved the presentation style.....Can you make a series of videos covering the mathematical aspects in details?

Thank you very much! Great video and great explanation. Thank you very much!

sir thank you for clear concept

I love you guys, keep up the good work!!!!

Thanks a lot for your wonderfull tutorial

Totally awesome video.  Thank you.  :)

Brilliantly done very good indeed. thanks

Thank you for this video.!

awesome video, thank you kindly

Love this video. Thank you

what a great video!! thanks for you effort and time!!! . well done.

Keep doing your great video, i enjoy it

Superb video

1 minute in and i love it!!

Excellent!

awesome video

Great videos, subscribing

OMG this video is just perfect

Great job

Thanks for the vid!

Thank you very much sir

Perfect video

amen to your shirt brother lol ... words to live by

Awesome!
P.S. I couldn't agree more with the sentence printed on your T-shirt "Never trust the autorouter" :)

thank u for this video very nice.

Very good video

Great presentation of MOSFETs...they are in the blood

Great video. I wonder how you present a technical thing in so much interesting way. Very clear and understandable. Thank you very much!

Great video. If I am correct, MOSFETS are also High Impedance devices with very low noise factor.

Excellent explanation of MOSFET. Thanks! It has been so many years that I have not worked with MOSFET design ckts I have a LOT of MOSS in my head. Ha!

I like how easy your videos are to understand but they are so short that you don´t cover a topic fully. Even if you were to cover them sequentially which you don´t by the time the next video comes out the person/learners have already forgotten what was covered in the last video.

Thanks so much.full & final about MOSFETs. Please make video on soler panal controller

nice explantion ,tq sir .u r doing a very good job .kudos to u sir

Used a power depletion fet to drain the bank on my CD welder(through power resistors) either when switched off or wanting to weld with a Lower voltage. It was expensive relative to other parts but not having a relay on an otherwise solid state design was oh so satisfying. Nice video only thing I would have added is if you want to high side switch one can avoid a lot of headake using a floating supply on the gate and an opto isolate to signal it. Esp practical for one offs where a few bucks isn't multiplied by hundreds or thousands

Thank you for the PDF

Very good!

It is great! I understood almost everything and my English is basic. I am from Peru.

great video.

very useful. Thabks

Great!!!, you are a Genius Teacher

great video . awesome

Amazing video for both engineers and beginners who are learning to prototype. And the occasional people who kind of forgot how they operate :/

Very clear

Very useful.

Thank you!

Very Very good!

+S W Lee With a lot of practice.

Excellent.

Great informative Video many thanks... just subscribed.. 🥳🥳🥳

Nice job!

Neat! Important: engaging.

Hi James, i am from Brazil and would thank you for this videos, i'm loving your channel.

Excelente video y excelente explicacion.

thanks for this video keep making some usefull video

thank you very much

awesome vid thnx a looooot

¡ Muchas gracias !

nice video...subscribed

good informative video. I like it

Although the video is in English, very interesting, simple and educational; thanks

well done

A great video.

Its amazing how much current mosfets can handle for the flimsy look of the pins.

thanks,l like
from Morocco

Think you very mach. 謝謝您的分享,受益良多.

Thank you 👍👍👍

Brilliant!!

Tem que falar que é do Brasil, né? Kkk

Sim, pra que ele saiba que o trabalho dele está sendo curtido pelo resto do mundo.

good video thanks

nice video james. Maybe you can add more example of transistor in circuit for next videos.  

Thank you.

this video is good, from chile my congratlation by your knowledge, good luck

Greate work .. Thankzz

Que buen vídeo.!!!!!

great video. .i will subscribe

MOSS ..very funny. Excellent tutorial BTW.

very helpful

Very informative:)

Extraordinarriiiooooo thanks for the teaching 👍👍👍👍👌👌👌👏👏👏

Thank You!

Nice video

Really good explanation of Mosfets! Especially about logic level, as more and more people are wanting to drive high current devices from 5V logic lines...

Only thing you didn't cover was why a resistor is put on the gate.

Thank you

Nice n clear awesome!!! & keep it up 👆  subscribed 👍✋

Excellent

very nice video 👌 please make a video on how to design gate driver for mosfet.

You are one of great teacher. What determines when to use an n-channel or p-channel? Can you show some examples?

Thank you

The information is good. Sub'd

讲的太好了，一看就明白。学会了怎么看数据手册

Thank you!!!

Amazing stuffs.

Gracias por la traducción, saludos desde El Salvador

super nice

thank you

benefit chanel. so much love from Viet Nam

thank you.

very good

Fantastic

awesome!

This is very well explained. Thank you!

MOSFETs were a godsend to me when I was transitioning from vacuum tube circuits to solid state. Because they are both voltage driven, it was fairly easy to adapt the designs from one to the other. That gave me some breathing space while I got my head wrapped around current driven BJTs.

Good vid!👍

Thanks 👍

You rocked

Great work! explains it all simply and clearly - thankyou  now I know why heatbeds use a mosfet as opposed to a relay

بهترین کانال است

Thank you...

FCP 380n60 which one is the voltage?!?

I feel a rudely impulse to ask what you were building

Yeah. Any power transistor is much better when an application needs PWM or faster than a cycle per second.  Plus relays have a limited number of cycles before their contacts are no good. There's probably a "cycle limit" to a semiconductor but it's well outside of any operational (or human) lifetime.

Great video!
I have been watching some early videos about the invention of the transistor and 'point contact' transistors and they all seem pretty complicated -the MOSFET by comparison seems very simple. Maybe I am just thinking this because its seems more binary in nature. The impact of a 'field' on conductance seems pretty intuitive.

danke its very useful

thank you

Nice video..

nice tutorials, also please make tutorial for triac

nice video

Whow man...
That amazing video...
Could you please make a video about the varistor?
Greetings from Colombia.

excellent :)

thanks great Job to Presentation?

Great video ¡¡¡

Keep going 
Thanks

started chuckling when i saw t-shirt....got to get one, me thinks ;)

tnxx
i just subbed

very good！！

Muchas Gracias!

excellent video!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  thanks  a sub and a thumb way up!!!
oh yeah, and I never use the autorouter.  and cool shirt!

아주이해하기좋게알려주시네요. 감사합니다 👏👍

Thank youu

Hello Ilike your video thank you

Good vid

@AddOhms I just subbed

A very good video, I still think many of these electronic videos need more real-life examples.  My initial question here is, "why not use a potentiometer to raise the resistance".  My only conclusion is the input voltage may not be constant.

That shirt! Never trust the autorouter.. 😂😂😂 Great video!

subscribed. very well explained. although i still did not absorbed the information because i am fairly new to electronics. 

Muy buen video. Y excelentes subtitulos

فيديو ممتع وشرح بسيط

Excelente

mucha gracias por subtitular al español, se te agradece! me suscribo!.

Good Video

Excelente!

awesome

Thank you for your lesson. I already subscribe your youtube channel. And i will come back to here. And study about electric element.

Super Cool TShirt !!!!

excelente contenido amigo super como lo explicas soy ing electronico y estoy empezando a reparar fuentes de poder de pc

Do a video about paralleling MOSFETS/HEXFETS for high current loads.

Thanks

I wish I found you when I was in college :(

This video is superb...i need information abt tautempole...

WOW BIG BIG CHECK I FOLLOW YOU BRO

hahahhhaahha it was so funny the beginning ahhaha ;:D so cool dude!!!

gracias

Thanks

Спасибо. Очень интресно!

thank you...

Exelente

That shirt is AWESOME!

MUY BUENO

very informative video. Cna you please make one on IGBT?

This is a great video. Do you have one on choosing a heatsink?

dude, nice video ihave to subs!

With a voltage divider at the gate, there must be some factor determining what range of current should be flowing through these resisters.

Many thanks James!
Have been frequenting your site for a while now and just discovered this channel. 
Thanks for all your work and especially so for your easy to understand millis tuts =]>

شكرا كثير

nice

nice

Nice explanation!  Your H2O story is good, I wonder how many catch it. :)

Gracias por los subtitulos en español !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

voce e maravilhoso caRA

Всё понятно, спасибо

Best shirt ever!

Thank you for the kind comments!

I didn't know Hydrogen per oxide was poisonous. Thanx for mixing humor with learning! Nice Production.

You should teach college, your students would learn so much more and quickly. What you explained made perfect sense and you covered a lot of the important information.

MOSFET aka Metal Oxide Smoke & Fire Emitting Transistor   20 years ago my nickname was 1 leg MOSFET ... because the other two burned off.  Let's just say some of my motor controller designs suffered from insufficient heat dissipation and or catastrophic back EMF issues.  I always said "fire is the other way to learn".

In my experience temperature problems arise when you switch the circuit at high frequency. The steady open or closed states are easy to assess, as far as heat. But the switching is way more complicated and can lead to major problems.

I know it doesn't really come into play until one uses MOSFET's in fast switching applications, but one has to remember, that the Gate has tiny bit of "capacitance". The Gate has certain amount of charge that needs to be filled in order for it to change the Rds. And this amount is dependent on the size of the gate, thus high voltage and current MOSFET's have bigger gate charge.

It's measured in coulombs, so if you want to switch the MOSFET on very fast to minimize the time that it's in linear region (thus minimizing the losses and heat) you want to have quite significant current delivery to the gate when switching on and you also want to discharge the gate as fast as possible when going to the other direction :)

Because of this, it's not advisable to use very large resistor in series with the Gate, but also it's not advisable to plug MOSFET to a microcontroller pin without it or you can break the IO pin.

Thus there are driver IC's available for this application :)

Excellent teaching skills there James, a real credit to you. I've subscribed. Great video look forward to more of them - you've so much to contribute with your clear style. Many thanks from across in the UK.

Nice video sir.  How to use MOSFETs as variable resistance to measure the IV characteristics of solar cells?

i appreciate the lack of royalty-free tunes in the background.

Merci

Interesting bit of trivia: Mosfets are the most abundant man made object.

Excellent video and t-shirt

One tutorial for power diodes pleaseeeee! :)

Great video. Could you talk about the P-Channel or how to connect MOSFET in parallel? Thanks a lot

The best video on microelectronics I have seen so far.

Thanx for the great video but will u plz give more attention on MOSFET for exp. it's type n how to use it in amplification and thank you again for this lecture.

très intéressant , pour la traduction pas évident

Liked you t-shirt. Haven't done any PCB layout in a 20+ years but even back then you couldn't trust the autorouter. I'm surprised that it's still the same.

Good

I am interested in learning electronics and how to use them to make different bells and whistles to warn a rider or driver of pilot of an approaching potential problem, such a cylinder head excessive temperatures, water temperatures, oil pressure low, oil temperature outside the normal range, etc.
Thank you,
Franco

Really wanted to hear more about the life cycle of moss.

This is definitely something I want to cover in more detail in the future. But that's why I snuck the resistor into the drawing for this videol

I myself learned about it when building a LED cube and trying to figure out how to switch different layers on and off fast enough to minimize the "afterglow" when multiplexing :)

The idea of "put the components down and hit autoroute" is still a long time away. However, auto-routers are useful for specific layout tasks. For example, routing time critical buses between a memory controller and DDR chip. Or high-speed differential signals. 

General purpose "auto route" simply cannot take into account the human designer's intent for non-electrical decisions.

lol. It has been a while, but I'm pretty sure I just read the wikipedia article on moss.

 @AddOhms  I like to think of it as a beautiful nature documentary narrated by Sir David Attenborough about the struggles of being a moss and how moss families are made. Can't wait for "Planet Earth 3".

i love your T-shirt

U are the best!

The threshold is usually a range not a single value, stating that the fet will start conducting at some point within that range. But it's only starting to conduct at that point it isn't fully on. Don't assume that because your threshold is something like 2v to 4v that you're going to be fine with a 4V gate/source voltage to switch a large load, you won't be. The fet will have a very high on resistance at that point. You need to look further at the graphs to fully determine how to switch the fet HARD on, and you'll usually be wanting in the region of 8V to 10V even with a logic level fet to switch it on enough to be useful. The low threshold fets are fine for switching high impedance logic level signals but if you use one to switch a heavy load you need to be very careful what fet you're choosing. The transistor shown in this video is kind of a special case with a low RdsON at 5v, not all logic level fets are like this.

+1 for humour. :)

Tnx

Excelent presenting, i really enjoyed :)

You know you're cool when you laugh at the moss joke

Muito bom, poderia colocar legenda obrigado.

I am trying to figure out how to make a PEMF unit. This will be low everything, amps, voltage, but I'm not sure of all the things I need. Could you give me some suggestions? So far this was the most informative video I have found, thank you

0:29 and i died

cool

Why do we still need teachers ? This guy is a genius

thanks for your video. can you give me more details about the short channel effect and solutions?

Can you explain the selection or gate resistor (value) subjection to turn on and turn off time with gate to source voltage?

Waidamminutt... Very funny - and thanks very much for the info  :-)

very good

Hello. Thanks for the great video. I was hoping to learn a little about MOSFET drivers too. May you please write a quick and short explanation about why do we need them sometimes? Thank you.

Fuckin hell mate, wish I had watched your video earlier. My problem is that my mosfets that are connected to an Arduino wouldn't switch on and off and now I realized the mosfets I am using have a very high Vgs(threshold). Cheers.

Liked and Subbed, can you cover SCR's and TRIACS Sir?  Thanks :D

Will you be doing JFETs?

No, you are.

very good 
thank you

Drivers are needed when the driving device can't turn on the MOSFET. A common example is when using a P-Channel as a High Side switch. A NPN (or N-Channel) driver is used to turn on the P-Channel.

AddOhms Thank you.

There speak a guy who has been bitten by the Autorouter...
Weapons Grade respects....
great vid too. Thanks Bud.

Is it time for the next mosfet tutorial promised in this video :-)

Loved the simplicity and ease of explanation. I was struggling to use a P-Mosfet with 24V rail. and Vgs>20V. read in comments below, an advice to use a voltage divider. Thanks....

Where have you been all my life???

Oh good, now I can restart my madcap experiments without blowing up a Mosfet, muahahaha

👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏

I am not an electrical person but this video make is so easy to follow! 
I guess i learned something, good job how you are doing the video editing ?

honestly this covers all aspects, damn one of the best tutorials out there. Well done!

This is an excellent video. Did you ever make more fet videos?

great, and thanks for the subtitles in Spanish

Moss... you sent me into splits :) :) :)

What about ciss on mosfet, that mosfet gate has capacitive element, so when we want to drive the mosfet we have to add pull-down resistor to neutralize the electron inside the gate

You, sir ,are a great instructor. How's your tube theory. I repair tube guitar amps for a living.

👍👏

your clip is good knowledge .can you make a clip to assembly a Load on D of mosfet P channel and bias for Gate

Bro this guy sounds EXACTLY like Otacon from MGS...😯

Nice shirt! :)

when Michael of GTA V gives you a lesson about MOSFETS

0:29, hahaha a chemist joke 😂

Hi I'm looking for a 'tutorial' regarding the use of MOSFETs as amplifiers.  I am well versed with BJTs but never tried MOSFETs. Any pointers, can you recommend a MOSFET to try out and experiment with?

You misread the data sheet. That is the maximum Vgs. Not the threshold.

You may also want to read this: https://www.baldengineer.com/p-channel-mosfet-tutorial-with-only-positive-voltages.html

+Hesham Ismail Thanks. Combination of After Effects, Motion, Final Cut Pro X, Illustrator, and Photoshop. Audio is processed with Audition.

+orbita1 Not yet. Have some ideas. Difference between high side and low side, when to use p-channel FET, and a deeper dive on the "analog" side (amplifiers.) But have some other stuff I want to cover first

I do not take credit. They were provided by an anonymous person.

hi thanks for the useful video...how do we calculate the size of heatsink required for a mosfet??

One of the best explanation i've seen, thank you

Well explained but still confusing for me.

Hi!  I have a question about what kind of mosfet is suitable for airsoft? and maybe can u show some videos on how and what are their functions and connections to each other. tnx. and Godspeed!!!  im rogelio tamala from the philippines.

i want to learn more about P channel mosfet please

Hi have you got any later video on cooling MOSFET?

Why is there a resistor from signal source to gate ? How it's value should be computed ? Can it be omitted if using proper mosfet-driver chip ? Where is the resistor to quickly discharge gate capacitance when mosfet is turned off ?

hahahahahhha very well explained amcurrently reading switchmode power supply

Heatsink calculations?

Good job!
I have a question. I have a 24V load controlled by an H bridge with Mosfets. The mosfet thershold  voltage is Vth=4V. I have problem with PMOS control with arduino.

♥️

💖

👍

A very nice video..!  How did you make the drawings and animations etc, which technologies did you use?

oohh

I want to ask for written information in the MOSFET and how to understand them

2:48 i used your schematic. The mosfet is hot with 50W load as with 1W load. hmm

Thanks

Do I have to connect the positive to the Gate and the Source? Or the positive on the gate and the negative on the source and the load on the drain?

It's not quite right to calculate max power using ambient temperature of 25 deg C. You should always use the maximum ambient temperature and add a little bit. here it can get to 35 or even 38, so maybe 45 is a good starting point. Also if it's in a case even if it's with holes then you might want to add a bit more - like 50. so it's actually about 2W. I would assume 1.5W

You’re welcome and thank you.

👍

Nice video! 

I have a question though, I'd just like to know how could i connect a circuit needing only 9 V from a 400 V circuit that's running off a 1.5V batt?  Is there some sort of component that can reduce the 400 V or prevent it from damaging the IC or LED i have in place?  If so, can you do a video on it please?  I seem to recall just using simple components like resistors and capacitors to lower the voltage down but i'm not so sure about it.  Cheers

와.. 대학교때 이동영상 한번만 봤더라면 전자회로1, 2 둘다 A+받을 수 있었을텐데...

How do I choose the value of the resistor on the gate of a MOSFET?
The MOSFET is being driven by an op amp.

Dejaste pendiente otro video para calcular el disipador de calor  para que alcance los 79 w podrias hacerme el favor de darme el   enlace al siguiente video donde calculas el disipador de calor para el mosfet gracias la traducción de texto al español me permitió entenderlo   
me suscribi desde colombia

nice T-shirt :)

Im confused....at 4:10, the datasheet says the min & max Vgs are 1 & 2.5 Volts.  So why is Vgs specified as 5 & 10 Volt values for the Rds(on)?  If the max Vgs is 2.5 V, why would you ever get to 5 or 10 Volts??

... best ever content and presentation ! ... I was wondering what software you use for your presentations? ... thank you! 👍

I have a power led driver circuits. input 5v output 1A. please someone share?

+1 just for the "moss" joke :P

Thanks for this tutorial! The heat sink information is particularly useful. I noticed the depletion symbol despite the enhancement MOSFET description (small problem). Footnote to the presentation: You mention that MOSFETs act like voltage-controlled resistors. True for JFETs (depletion devices) operating below the gate pinch-off voltage. That is, left of the knee, near the top-left side of the curves. Beyond pinch-off, the JFET becomes a constant current source: Similar to an enhancement MOSFET operating in the flat-top part of its curves. Maybe one of your other videos covers these points.

@1:10 do you think I should be worried? I didn't notice until you said wait a minute

Valve designers can make anything using  only n  channel depletion mode mosfets.

And Boba Fets!

can you help me on how can I use a Mosfet to limit amps from a transformer giving 50v 10 amps. to 50v 5 amps.. 
I have converted 50v AC to DC through 4 Diodes of 6 amps each.

So clear for a mechanical guy like me ! Thanks

me gusto la explicacion pero no habria la forma de ponerla en español

Great video on MOSFETs, well done! Very good, practical information. (Isn't the symbol at 2:16 wrong though? I think that is a depletion mode MOSFET).

Hey
same way to caluculate the effetct in p mos as it is in N mos ?

How can I make a circuit, using a temperature sensor sender, to make a beeping warning sound when the coolant temperature is approaching 85 degrees celsius? then a continuous warning or alert sound as it reaches say 90 degrees Celsius and the radiator fan is not on yet!
Thank you,
Franco

It's because "max" doesn't mean maximum in this case. Vgs(th) is the minimum voltage to turn the transistor on. So the datasheet is giving you the range before it turns on. "Max 2.5 volts" means, if you apply at least 2.5 volts, the transistor will start to turn on. (Or you could say that’s the voltage to turn off the FET.) It is a range because SOME transistors will turn on with only 1 volt. 10 volts is common to fully turn-on the MOSFET so that you get the lowest Rds(on) value.

After Effects

Ditto.

+James Hawes Yes, the depletion mode was a mistake I didn't catch. I drew them both and used the wrong one. Long story.

Good points on the footnote, but I probably won't go into the much detail. The idea was to differentiate a MOSFET to a BJT, not get deep into the details.

+AddOhms 
About one minute in, you say that the depletion MOSFET works like a variable resistor. Maybe there's some way of clarifying this point without getting too detailed. (As you know, unlike a variable resistor, a MOSFET amplifier is nonlinear.)

+Laurent CNC Thanks.

Yes

the  bartender was a chemist :))

that tee thou..lol

Hello,  Can you talk about how the Cree MOSFET can compete with an IGBT at 1200 volts?  We have been using IGBTs but need to shrink our product.  Cree claims they can help us do that with a MOSFET.

New to this channel. Joke on 0:28 means second ordered H2O2? :)

Humble suggestion:  if possible, where applicable, could you demonstrate with a real world example.  The motor example is great but it's on paper. Thanks.

I have a STP80NE03L-06 mosfet laying around. And after waching your video I think it's a real good mosfet for using with an Arduino. Is this true?

well i wanted to make a power supply i am having a transformer 12 v and 4 amps diode IN5404 MIC WHICH MOSFET I SHOULD USE

how large are the highest amperage mosfets made

I like the idea that u used test certificate..

I like your shirt.

I am wondering if there is any comparison charts for various transistors that I can use in a switching supply.  I know as much about a tetrode and a npn bjt. I'm not too knowledgeable of the newer transistors such as GaN and  have repaired some equipment that has IGBT modules. I would like to build an inverter that can take 24vdc and convert it to 120/240vac. I am considering various MOSFET's for a low voltage drop as it is less than many other types.  I will be using a heatsink, and will be designing it with enough safety margin that I don't expect to fix it. I have designed things that are still working after nearly 30 years and a few moves for people with standard parts in a new configuration. Just because something is in the data books does not mean there are not many other ways to do the same things. Also taking into consideration the various thermal resistances and the level of spikes is very important, but I'm not completely sure how to calculate spikes, but figuiring the best solution might be a parallel LC circuit tuned to 60hz. Then using a high voltage winding with capacitors, as the higher voltage winding could use smaller wire in the secondary along with smaller value capacitors. Much as Lincoln electric does in the power equipment they design and build that handles thousands of amps output.

Anyone ever run into a ss10pl10 transistor? I need to find a replacement. Can find anything on it on the web. Company does not reply.

isnt this a enhancement mode mosfet?? so UDS will be conductive if voltage on UGS is applied??

That this video gets right to the point (except for the moss joke) & has only 62k thins up out of 3.7M view's says a lot about the "average" YT watcher, so lazy they won't hit a like button to save their soul.

Could you please point me to the video you said you were going to do with heatsinking the MOSFET? I'd like to learn how to calculate the tempature with a heatsink.

I also could not find a Rθ ja for the IXFX520N075T2 n-Channel FET I want to learn about. Only thing on the data sheet is, ...

Rth JC °C/Watts = 0.12°C/Watts
Rth CS °C/Watts = 0.15°C/Watts

I have no idea what Rth JC, even though it shows what it is in your video, which is the Junction to Case.

I also have no clue what Rth CS means. Which is the 2nd tempature rating on my data sheet on Mouser. I was able to understand what your talking about in your video, which is excellent for me, because I'm very interested in learning more in depth about the MOSFET, other than the very easy to understand Vgs (th). Or the Rds(on) x the Amps load of my device, or motor, etc. It's pretty easy. With my above MOSFET, it's 2.2mOhms or 0.0022 Ohms x let's say, 100 Amps. So that's what.. 22.0 Watts. But that's as far as I can go. Because I don't understand how to calculate it with a heatsink, which I'm going to take a guess and say that's what the two value mean on my data sheet for the IXFX520N075T2. (Rth JC & Rth CS).


So according to what I just read, Theta-JC or Rth JC is..

The junction-to-case thermal resistance metric was originally devised to allow estimation of the thermal performance of a package when a heat sink was attached.

So that's cool I guess, but I also guess that there's really no way to know what size or type of metal is being used to use as a heatsink. But according to my data sheet, it's 0.12°C/Watts, so 0.12°C/Watts * 22.0 Watts = 2.64°C, which is only 1.508% of the Tj, which is 175°C. That's nuts. Seems wrong, but this bad boy is $11.66 ea. I have two of them, and they are not average. They feel premium, well made.

http://oi61.tinypic.com/2hghk4i.jpg
http://oi62.tinypic.com/2vcvl7s.jpg
http://oi59.tinypic.com/zvq15t.jpg

:)

EXCELLENT VIDEO btw. I did learn more about the MOSFET. Thank You. (+1 : 589) & Subbed.

A nice video about MOSFETs, which answered some questions. But the pronunciation is sometimes difficult to understand for a non native speaker. For example, I understood mA instead of mOhm. But the automatic subtitles helped me ;-)

How to know the value of leaky mosfet.

Sir What is the deference tic106M and tic 106D?

your voice reminds me of the discovery show how it is made

I found a lot of MOSFET datasheets at https://www.onsemi.com/PowerSolutions/parametrics/809/products

He has a handlebar mustache, so he prefers to be called a mixologist. ;)

 @AddOhms   haha :)) ;)

+Bhanu Tez ? What test certificate?

The English subtitles are not automated, they were transcribed by hand and edited by me. My hope is that they help drive the automatic translation to other languages.

+AddOhms Good thing!

Not sure if that is a good thing or a bad thing. So I'll say Thank You! ;)

Good video :). Subscribe for this channel :)

Футболка прикольная.

can you tell me what is name the transistor j11 FQP 65N06

Hi James,

Please help me with this I have to switch a Peltier module using an attiny 85 microcontroller.where the controller works on 5v and the Peltier works on 12v 3amp current. 
so my 1st question is can I be able to switch my Peltier module using my attiny 85.
and 2nd if  yes which mosfet would you like to prefer to connect for better result. And do I need to connect a heat sink with the mosfet.

Thanks you

How is the gate resistor determined?

Great video, but there is one thing I do not fully agree with: BJTs can be scaled to handle much larger powers, and I have a ton of 2N3055's lying around to prove that! (And I do truly mean the old ones in the TO-3 package!)

They are advantageous when faster switching speeds are necessary, and when the input capacitance of an op amp is not desirable, or that the input current is desirable for whatever reason (like driving the input with a low voltage low impedance source, it sort of touches upon that impedance-matching stuff!)

Very Excellent tutorial - It helped me to understand the basic very clearly. .
In Addohm#11:Please explain the  left part  that why power dissipation is less when we calculate using  Rds * i2  compared to using the concept of "junction to ambient thermal resistance" .
 So that i can  manage power for my board (it contain so many different IC's),It will be great help from you if you do that.  PLEASE..

hi, could you make an video talking about the different operation of the n-type MOSFETs and the p-type MOSFET please?

Ah! That's the difference between regular transistors and MOSFETs... They're basically like more robust transistors meant for heavy loads. Pretty useful for speed controling

Well

Hello sir,
Can you help me for Dimming COB DC lamp with 28V 670mA?
1. TIP41C BJT   [100V  6A  65W] it is getting to much hot.
2. IRF540 MOSFET[100V 30A 150W] it is not giving effective dimming

Other Option is to use TIP120C BJT[60V 5A], IRF520 MOSFET[100V 10A]
Which is best IC to use with 4N35 Optoisolator to dim DC with ARDUINO ?

+1

new sub!! Love the video, very helpful.
At 3:20 you said that when the voltage is past the threshold, the resistance drops quickly, how could you better control or expand the range to better control the resistance drop for fine tuning the speed of a motor.

so, a mosfet is (to simplify it very much) just a relay?

ive never had any luck with them,  some sources suggest that there needs to be a diode between 2 of the pins, I don't understand why though, I thought it was just a 'big transistor' and it would work the same way.

i like your shirt.

i was wondering about incorporating chemfets in raspberry pi controlled circuits where the gate voltage changes due to chemical changes in environment and  measuring the varying current and transforming it to an outputting a voltage / data logger.

Can you do a video on MOSFET RF Modules pls. There aren't any videos about it anywhere on yt.

thanks by traslate..

Source -- Drain   English - No Accident

Power Max This is very true. The claim that BJTs are only used for low current applications is very wrong. I have BJT bricks that can handle hundreds of amps each at hundreds of volts. Such a brick can switch more than 50,000 watts of power! While both BJTs and MOSFETs can switch large currents BJTs can do this with a relatively low input voltage (around 0.7 volts) while a MOSFET requires a relatively large voltage (around 2 or more volts) but with no sustained current. MOSFET are great for certain situations where large currents need to be switched with voltages only but there are things they simply can't do and the same is true for BJTs. Both transistor types have their strengths and weaknesses. IGBTs dominate over both BJT's and MOSFETs in the high power, high voltage market.

It was comparing actual power dissipation to maximum dissipation.

Thank you very much, AddOhms.
Your work always Helps and Inspires me. .

They operate the same. The difference is how you drive them. P-Channel needs a higher voltage at the source compared to the gate to operate. So they are specified with negative Vgs.  I wrote up an example here: https://www.baldengineer.com/p-channel-mosfet-tutorial-with-only-positive-voltages.html

oh ok thank you very much

+Sigma Tech MOSFETs are transistors.

Yup I understand that now.

If you wanted more control over the resistance, you would use a JFET, not an Enhancement Mode MOSFET. They are much more variable.  Regardless, that isn't how you'd control the speed of a motor. You would use a PWM signal instead.

Thanks. I was looking at the PWM control tutorials and saw this one.

yeah, 1st vid of his ive seen, I know how to basically use MOSFET's. And if the rest of the videos are going to be like this. Im in too.
edit: Don't forget to hit the bell next to subscribe.

You can always use a variable resistance to do that.

You might be confusing the "body diode." Because of how FETs are constructed, there is a "body" diode between the drain and source. That diode structure means you can't reverse the drain and source.

I never heard of them before. However it looks like instead of being sensitive to voltage they are sensitive to “chemicals.” You would probably build them with a resistor divider network with the FET acting as R1 or R2. The details of that design depend on the sensor and outside the scope I can help with.

Sorry. Not a subject I know well enough to do a video.

Too bad I did not watch this video when I were still in college.

good video.thank doggie. don't trust the auto router

James can you help me with a question please?

If BJTs are better for low current stuff, why are MOSFETS used in digital IC chips (CMOS)?

I was testing you ! I have a 12kw free energy generator powered from a virtual particle field some call it the quantum field or zero point energy. You need to let go of what you know about electronics than add the quantum field into all your equations !  You avoid heat from this current and no back EMF .. WHAT WOULD THAT MEAN TO YOU ?

Bravo molto interessante, anche se faccio un po'di fatica con il traduttore automatico, ma comunque si riesce a capire bene.
Bravo very interesting, although I do a bit ' of effort with the automatic translator, but still you can understand well.

yea ward  it has other number 75339p

What's a brilliant.......!

Great video, learned some good info.  I want to use mosfet in a PWM application to control my motor's speed.  I plan on free-wheeling diodes across my motor to limit back-emf to driver circuit.  Any special precautions about PWM applications for MOSFET??

Wait this is not about moss? Damn, wrong video!

Bc547 head up to burn with a motor 3v 100mA :(

do videos on electrical engineering too..... request from subscriber

Thank you sir for the tutorial. Question:
Can i use a logic level mosfet paired with an arduino to replace a push button switch controlling the output of a pulsating high dc voltage?

can i email you sir i have a lot of questions

Man!  I thought you were James Corden with shaved head!

ok! so they're a different type of transistor when LOTS OF CURRENT is being switched. if I wanted to wire up motor or something that'd use lots of power, controlled from a gpio pin going high, I'd use a mosfet :O

+AddOhms
Make a video about how to create negative voltage on NJFET's gate.

So basically MOSFET is like a Triac but only for DC circuits.

Apologies for the newbie question - when would you and when would you not use a resistor on the gate?  What determines the value of the resistor?

Need power mos  for high current inverters

Grazie. I am making captions to make translations easier.

thanks

No.

+Azagro Sorry! Blame my search-engine optimization (SEO) skills. I really wanted to get the extra views from the moss tutorial community.

Uh...? As opposed to the videos I do on some other engineering discipline?

Yes

logic level yasssssss

You don’t. It’s negative relative to the source pin.

 @AddOhms  
Ok, then how to control NJFET's?

The gate is a small capacitor. The resistor limits in-rush current. Picking a value is not trivial, depending on the use. If it is a slow signal (turning on a large load) then use 100-1000 ohms. If it is switching up to 1 MHz, use about 100 ohms. Beyond that, you need to look at some application notes to see what manufacturers recommend. More details here: bald.ee/wbw-yt-miller

Got it, thank you!

Cool. Thanks for sharing.

📝😵

Also isn't there some trick of running multiples in parallel for higher current so you can use cheaper parts-bin type components than high-rated specialty models? (At least if space isn't at too much a premium.) Saw something where it looked like an EV motor controller was doing that.

Thank you for this exelent  information.I have  just one question if you can help me.On the top right corner of the data sheet shows the VGS(TH)=10V.  Where did you get  VGS(TH)=<5V?

Excellent presentation ... very engaging ... 
may I ask you what software you use?

Ha  ha !!!

Great video and well done. I think you accidentally drew the symbol for a Depletion mode MOSFET at 2:20   ...the datasheet confirmed my suspicion as the datasheet follows the convention I am used to. I always relate enhancement MOSFETS to the dashed line that resembles an E. There are a lot of conventions but that symbol would indicate only depletion mode to me, so I wonder if you just made a simple mistake. Again great video!

Example
|
|<   enhancement  uses the dashed line (E type MOSFETS)  .
|

Thanks for the video, very informative and easy to understand.  Is it possible to gate the mosfet with an audio signal, as that is AC, would that work?  I've been attempting it, but it will only drain when I touch the gate input, it's not responding to the audio at all.  I tried with different levels, quite some voltage output.  Perhaps mosfet only responds to DC, is that right?  Thanks!

Great video even I know all about you talk already,  but can u cover your T-shirt , why  never trust autorouter?

Very nice presentation. Very good job. I have a question: can I use a Mosfet with the gate connected directly to an Arduino? I have a PWM controling LEDs but, I would like to control 20W bulbs. Thank you in advance. Best regards. José (from Portugal)

Great!!....How can I distinguish between G ,D and S.
 ie ..How to know this pin is G for instance....thanks a lot in advance.

Current ME student doing hardware research for a mechatronics project. Wish they taught us more about these applications use in school. Too much theory. Not enough hands on.

out standing video! I do have a question. I am planning on using white 12 VDC led light strips as a strobe for a Haunted house project I am working on. would I be able to use a 555 timer or a 3909  to drive the MOSFET  to trigger the LED light strips? Or is there a easier way to do so?

great video! i was wondering, what book do you recommend to learn more on the transistor family?

I still don't understand why reverse flow is still being taught. Electrons are negatively charged particles, the only thing moving from one atom to another. Since a positively charged atom is missing electrons, why would they give more to a negative rich area? Arrows in electronics typically point to the source of electrons(excluding wipers,pointers,etc.).

please show us that which type of transistor is better for Tesla coil and show meaning of transistor no.

H2o too. Lolz!

I've seen a YouTube video that has designed circuits using MOSFETs for switching loads, and then substituting a Darlington pair for the same task. What are the criteria for choosing one or the other?

So are depletion mode MOSFETs and enhancement mode MOSFETs different components or different modes on the same component?

Why the second guy die?

hi all!:) what if we connected the negative terminal of the fan shown in his diagram to the source, and then connected the drain to ground? (I.e reversing the connections that he has drawn)

would current still be able to flow through the MOSFET from source to drain?

EV controllers are inverters so that they can have variable speed control. The Motors are brushless dc motors which have multiple phases. What you likely saw were 6 FETs to control the BLDC. They we not in parallel.

That said, you are describing a property of MOSFETs. They have a positive temperature coefficient. Which means their resistance goes up as they get hotter. So they naturally balance themselves when placed in parallel.

In the Electrical Characteristics section. In the marketing section, it is saying a certain current capability with a specified Vgs.  With lower Vgs, it'll handle less current.

Combination of Scrivner, After Effects, Motion, Final Cut Pro, Audition, Illustrator, and Photoshop.

Yup.  you're right, it's wrong.  :(

I will address in a follow up.

Audio swings above and below 0 volts, which means the MOSFET's gate is seeing both positive and negative voltages. A transistor in the simple low-side switch like shown in this video cannot be used to amplify an AC signal like audio. Look up Class-AB and Class-D amplifier designs. An Enhancement Mode MOSFET is lousy for audio. You want either a JFET or a BJT.

Sorry, I'm not going to watch an entire video decode what you are trying to do. I'm confused because to drive a motor or solenoid, you would use the transistor as a switch. I don't see how that relates to an amplifier or audio.

 @AddOhms  no worries I don't expect you to watch it.  It's using the audio signal to drive the motor which vibrates a spring, it's an oddball spring reverb.  Thanks, I will try the BJT as you suggested

+Fanta BH It shows why. Autorouters make bad decisions.

+José Fonseca Yes

Read the data sheet. There is a drawing.

+chet dillenbeck Sure

Art of Electronics

AddOhms thank you for the recommendation 😁

+Mohit Rajput I'm sorry, that is not something I will cover.

+Chaplain Dave Sparks My experience has been Darlington pairs offer little benefits compared to a logic-level MOSFET. If I had a TIP120 sitting around doing nothing, I would use it. Otherwise, I'd just use a FET.

Different physical construction.

 @AddOhms  Thank you! That is helpful!

Current would flow through the internal body diode of the MOSFET and defeat the switching capability.

Dude I got one...3 guys on a weekend decided to get drunk. Mr. Proton, Mr. Neutron and Mr. Electron. Went on an all out drinking binge at a local bar. After 2 hours they had enough, asked the barkeep for the tab...
Mr. Proton: What's the damage?
Bartender: No charge for Mr. Neutron, but there will be a charge for Mr. Electron here.
Mr. Proton (mad at what he heard) What?!! No charge for my friend MR. Neutron?!! ARE YOU POSITIVE?!!
Bartender: No, but you are.

most if not all people get bald because of their intelligence. Me ? i'm getting bald too, but i still could not figure out many things in electronics that's why i subscribed to this channel. well, i am not completely bald yet maybe i could get that intelligence when i get there.

1.2K dislike, realy? Some people don't understand things, but its not make sense to dislike to. Pufff

How do we calculate the value of an external gate resistor if we have to use one?

umm so emitter base & collector is not for mosfet? only for npn nd pnp transistors? i hear you using source gate & drain , or are this common names used interchangeably? 

also are mosfet good for only high voltage? and npn or pnp good for low voltage but high current?

Hello Adam
What exactly would I need other than an air core coil to re-energize small N52 Neodymium magnets back to their original strengths.

Why the resistor on the gate? You're practically charging/discharging a capacitor, and the thing driving the pin might have a maximum current rating, but still its usually so small energy levels that it doesn't really matter in practice.

great video : )
i have a question. you said that not all MOSFETs are logic level compatible, so that means not all MOSFETs can be used with Arduino?

where is the answer/link for the power dissipation sayed on the datasheet, 79Watts vs the 2.4Watts calculated?

Do you have group?

so what is PD @TC 25°C = 200 W   (Power Dissipation) .it on datasheet IRF 3205

Good afternoon, could you give an idea of ​​an "H" bridge for 2 brush motors 180w each and with MOSFETs

well done for your video. I have a question. I dont understand the meaning of 12 volts. You said voltage between G and S. I don't undertand it.

Why never trust the auto router?

Since it's a voltage controlled device, what's the purpose of the gate resistor, and how do you choose the value?

That's something I've never seen covered, and it's missing from this explanation too.

I understand how to choose one for a BJT - it sets the base current, and that determines the maximum collector current.  For a MOSFET, it always just seems to be glossed over.

Never Trust the Autorouter .....thats absolutely right

At the 2:20 mark, what you are drawing I think is a depletion N-channel mosfet, not enhancement. Please correct me if I am wrong

where did you get the tshirt, it's really cool

Lots of people are watching the hho thing. Please make a video on how to build a circuit with 12 to 24v in and get the greatest voltage out with keeping the amps as low as possible. If there is a way to control manually the amps and the out voltage it will even be better. Some are talking about 50kv with as low as 4 amp. Is that even possible? Specifically when it is continues? Thanks

Great video! 
I subscribed to your channel. I have a question, if the MOSFET will work as a variable resistor in a circuit when different amounts of voltage is supplied to it. Is it necessary to use a MOSFET instead of just a variable resistor like potentiometer or rheostat?  Why? 
Thank you 🙏

If you're just using the MOSFET as a load switch, the value isn't critical. If you're switching a load on/off very quickly (kHz), then the value can matter.


The purpose of the resistor is to limit in-rush current when the gate turns on. The gate resistor creates an RC circuit with the gate's capacitance (found in the datasheet.) 


Whatever value you pick, should be a low enough RC time constant that it doesn't interfere with the switching frequency (if it applies).

+Frank Lopez Emitter, Base, and Collector are for "Bi-Polar Junction Transistors" also known as BJTs. They are made using different materials than MOSFETs. Source, Gate, and Drain are only for MOSFETs.

thank's

Sorry, I have no idea.

Depends on the driver and the length of the wire or trace connecting it to the gate. If the driver is relatively strong then the "small energy" level isn't that small. As for length, it is entirely possible to create an inductive ringing which affects the turn on/off of the FET. The capacitor will dampen that ringing. 


Is it required? In some cases, no. Is it helpful? In most cases, yes. So I chose to err on the side of including it.

Energy is only dependent on voltage and capacitance. However, I agree that the power can get quite high if there is little resistance in the driver.

But yeah, LC resonance might be an issue with long wiring. However, I have never experienced this as long as I only keep the wire going to the gate no more than a few centimeters from the driver.

Depending on the MOSFET, to fully turn it on, you might need more than 5V from Gate to Source. Even the one shown in the video isn't optimal with 3-5V at VGS. For FETs with higher VGS, it's common to use something like a NPN BJT to drive the Gate voltage, from the higher voltage supply.

thanks a lot : )

I haven't done a follow-up.

+Tan Le That is in the absolute max section of the data sheet, which specifies conditions that can destroy the component. You want to look at the graph that shows max drain current vs temperature.

I've never built something that big. You might want to look at an IGBT instead of a MOSFET.

It's the voltage for the load.

+TooSlowTube The gate of a MOSFET has capacitance. Like a capacitor, when voltage is first applied it draws a large amount of current initially. The purpose of the resistor is to prevent the gate's capacitance from drawing too much current from the source.

+AddOhms Thanks.  That helps.  So; high enough to not be a problem for the signal driving it, in terms of load (I'm thinking input impedance, in an amplifier, or similar), but low enough to not significantly filter out higher frequencies - I assume it has to charge up and discharge that capacitance to switch the gate on and off?  If so, it would act as part of a low pass filter - it would always switch eventually but would take longer with a larger value resistor.

Any better guidelines on choosing the actual value, or is that about it?

Original pinned message got deleted. Yes. It is a depletion mode symbol. I created both animations for the video, but used the wrong one.

https://contextualelectronics.com/product/never-trust-the-autorouter-t-shirt/

+Iyad Subh I have no idea what a "hho thing" is.

Enhancement mode FETs have very little variability. They are best used for a switch. A JFET has variability and more useful in an analog situation. Neither has the range of a potentiometer.

Since the gate is entirely voltage controlled, what is your gate resistor there for?

Hi! I just wanna know what type or kind of MOSFET is ideal to use in an air soft gun that don't need heatsink. Any response will be highly appreciated. By the way, I'm rogelio from the Philippines. Tnx.

Great video, very usfull explanation. Great work. 
I have a question about relation of Rds and Vgs. I like to use mosfet as light dimmer. But I was looking at the datasheet for FQP30N06L and there is a graph for Vgs and Id. Transistor starts to conduct current at Vgs=2.5V and drain current increase exponentialy up to Vgs=6V at this point transistor is almost fully open. So if I am making a light dimmer I have to concentrate that my base voltage is between 2.5 and 6V. Do I get this right?

Once the MOSFET turns on, does the output correlate linearly with the input, or does it just switch all the way ON as soon as activated?

I would like to see a circuit diagram of a photo resistor/solar light, with out a transistor, I had it up and operating but I lost my diagram, can you make an easy one.

when you talk about FETs … is that like Boba Fett and Jango Fett? I'm lost ...

Whats this I keep hearing about the BOBAFETs? Its like a MOSFET comes with some sort of custom heat armor?

Are these voltage specific? I need a mosfet with a gate of 5V at .5amp to power LED lights plugged into a 5V power outlet

Your visual diagrams were amazing

can this FQP30N06L switch the positive side of the load ? (i.e VCC->Drain->Source->load->ground) ?

while using arduino to control a large appliances is it necessary to have a optoisolator?

Hey James, Could you tell me how to use a 15v Zener to reduce 40v to 15v on the gate of the MOSFET

So if v is high the r is low between the drain and the source?

2:46 if there's no load between 12V and drain, can the MOSFET explode? If there's no load, all available current is gonna squeeze through that thing and make it pop, right?

Question- does a mosfet, when on, conduct the current both ways or only one way? Thanks.

1:03 - looked up the wrong datasheet <3

You mentioned that the Mosfet in the video is logic level... would it be an appropriate switch for using an Arduino to switch on/off an audio source?  (I'm thinking in terms of building a looper to let an arduino control which guitar effects are active)

Hi! thanks so much for this video! Is great to have this information. 

I'm wondering why are you adding a resistor between 5V and the Gate pin in the mosfet. I assume that the resistor is working as a current limiter, is this right?

thanks so much!

Depletion also comes in p channel as well or no? And it looks like you showed a depletion n channel mosfet instead of a enhancement? New to schematics and mosfet. Please clarify. Thank you!

Can a mosfet or a fet transistor used as a mechanical agent to push a tiny Membraine?

I am interested in building an unregulated vape mod using a mosfet and  a single 18650 lion battery,  however I would like to include a micro USB charging port in this build, is this possible? do you know how to wire the charge port to the battery sled and battery safely?

The gate is a small capacitor. On larger FETs, the in rush current could damage an IO pin. Or it could cause the driving voltage to be unstable.

IRF3703 should be perfect

+Borut Goli For AC lights, a MOSFET isn't suitable. You probably want a JFET to dim a light directly. Otherwise, you could also use PWM.

+AddOhms i am making dc ligt dimmer. can i use yor schematics with variabile resistor. btw isn' t fan an induction load. there should be reverse biased diod.

There are two regions, linear and saturated. In the linear region, as the name implies, is linear. The resistance of Rds-On changes linearly with voltage. For an enhancement mode mosfet, this area is very small. You can see it in the "Output Characteristics" graph of a MOSFET's datasheet. More information here: https://community.element14.com/challenges-projects/element14-presents/workbenchwednesdays/b/blog/posts/reading-mosfet-curves

 @AddOhms  thanks for the rapid reply. Essentially what I need is to follow an op amp with a transistor to achieve current gain. I need 40 ma to drive the LED within a vactrol. I am thinking BJT class B common collector topology. Would you do it this way or use a MOSFET?

+erick sal You put bias resistor in series with the photoresistor, creating a voltage divider.

AddOhms thank you for your response, tbh, I spent about a month if not more researching and wiring different ways until I found one, and it worked, but during an argument my wife put my work bench away and my diagram probably ended up in the trash,  if you could draw me a simple diagram and send the picture to quasimodo187@gmail.com 
you would give me some rest, as I'm back at the drawing board.
I intend to use a solar cell (6v 175mah) to charge the battery( li-ion 2200mah)  and the photo resistor, as the switch, thank you very much, have a good night GB.

It’s probably a clone

Does the gate have any current received from the source?

Can I buy a low voltage gate, low resistance mosfet?

The gate does not have much current. However, it is like a tiny capacitor so when it first turns on there is a small rush of current, which is why you still need a current limiting resistor (in some cases.) Once the gate is charged up, no current flows. As for a low-voltage gate, the FQP30N06L and IRFZ44N have low Vgs threshold voltages. Both still need high voltage to get the rated Rds (resistance), but still work well with 3.3v and 5v signals.

Yes, but the circuit would be somewhat more complicated than what is shown in the video.  An N-channel enhancement mode MOSFET is switched on and off by changing the voltage at the gate relative to the source.  The circuit you suggested would be using the MOSFET as a high side switch; that is, switching the positive supply to the circuit.

Suppose you're switching a motor that uses 12V.  When the MOSFET is on, almost no voltage is dropped across the MOSFET due to its very low on-state resistance (Rds-on), and the entire 12V is dropped across the motor.  This means that the MOSFET source is at 12V.  In order for the MOSFET to be on, the gate must be at a voltage higher than the source.  The required voltage difference is the gate-source threshold (Vgs-th).  If the Vgs-th is 3V, then in the 12V motor circuit the gate would need to be at 15V to turn on the MOSFET.

This is why N-channel MOSFETs are most commonly used as low-side switches, with their source tied to ground, or 0V.  With the source at 0V, it's easy to control the MOSFET with a low ("logic level") voltage, allowing you to control a higher voltage circuit (the 12V motor) with a lower voltage one (a 5V microcontroller).

If you really do need to use an N-channel MOSFET as a high side switch (in a very high current application where you need an extremely low Rds-on to limit power dissipation), there are special MOSFET driver ICs that can develop the higher voltage necessary to drive the gate.  These ICs often use a switched-capacitor boost circuit, but that's another topic entirely...

The easiest way to implement a high-side MOSFET switch is simply to use a P-channel MOSFET instead of an N-channel.  The P-channel is controlled in basically the opposite way to the N-channel: if the gate is held at a voltage above Vgs-th, then the P-channel MOSFET is off, and if the gate is pulled below Vgs-th (to ground, for example) the MOSFET is on.

Thus, with an N-channel MOSFET you would use a pull-down resistor on the gate and your control circuit would drive the gate high to turn the device on, and with a P-channel MOSFET you would use a pull-up resistor on the gate and your control circuit would drive the gate low to turn the device on.

One more thing to consider when using MOSFETs is gate charge (Qg in the datasheet).  This number is an expression of the amount of electrical charge that is required to switch the gate.  For most low-power hobby projects using small MOSFETs, you can probably ignore this, but if you use a very high power MOSFET, the required gate charge can be significant and can result in large current pulses into and out of the gate during switching.  Large, high-power MOSFETs can easily overwhelm the current capabilities of a microcontroller output pin.  In this case a dedicated MOSFET driver IC can be used, or the microcontroller can switch a small MOSFET, which in turn switches the larger MOSFET's gate.

+Krishna.S. Gowda It would be recommended to use a transformer or optoisolator to provide SOME isolation. It's unrelated to MOSFETs, however, because you wouldn't use a MOSFET to control an AC Device.

You create a voltage divider with it. Instead of R2, you use the Zener.

Yes, on an enhancement mode MOSFET. Depletion mode is the opposite.

If there is no load, that means there is an open. In which case there is no current. If you mean a short, then current is limited by the MOSFETs Rds-ON. MOSFETs have a positive thermal coefficient, which means their resistance goes up as they get hot. Even with a relatively low Vgs, the on-resistance is going to be in the 100 milliohm range for most decent sized FETs. It is probably the limit of what a TO-220 can dissipate without a heat sink. While it is possible to damage or burn up a FET, it is not going to explode or pop.

MOSFET has a body diode which makes them one-way. Besides, to reverse current you would reverse polarity on source and drain, likely causing Vgs to shut off the FET.

+Kaylee Fisher It was all bark and no byte.

Depends on what you mean by "audio source." It would be appropriate to turn off the supply to an audio amplifier. It would not be good in the amplifier path.

+Luis Diaz Yes, current limiter. Gate is a tiny capacitor

AddOhms thanks! What value do you recommend to use? It's any way to calculate the value of that resistor?

In practice, I haven’t seen a depletion mode p-channel. And yes, wrong symbol was shown.

No. You need a piezo element, transducer, or actuator.

+billy larry When dealing with Lithium Ion, unless you have significant experience designing Li-Ion chargers, use a dedicated Li-Ion charger IC. For example, look at the chips Adafruit boards use for USB and Li-Ion.

Is it possible to put mosfets in series in order to increase the source voltage? For example I have 5 mosfets rated at 450 volts. Can I put their sours and drains in series, so that I can increase the voltage up to for example 1200v?

Great video.  Got a question that maybe someone can answer.  I am brand new at building circuits and am currently building a very simple circuit.  I am powering a 87 RPM 12 V DC motor using battery power.  I want to be able to adjust the RPMs and am wondering why use both a potentiometer and MOSFET, if I even need to.  Thanks for any assistance.

How good a thermometer would a 2N7000 make? they cost 4 to 10 cents at a quick look.
I am guessing that from temperature graphs and Rdson for 25C 1.2R to 125C 1.9R
But perhaps the same temperature would change the rest of my circuit/UNO?

it says on the data sheet vgs of fqp30n06l is 1v min to 2.5v max, what happens if I put 5v from arduino will it explode?

Would you be able to explain why the drain is called drain and source is called source and do you have any content on using P channel vs N channel MOSFETs ?

I need to slow my deep well 120v. 1 1/4 hp  pump down gradually, to reduce the "hammer" effect when the pressure relay cuts the power to the pump. I would like to drop it from full power to no power over 2-3 seconds. Would a MOSFET designed circuit accomplish this for me, or would another appoach be more simple, to get the same results (stepping relays)? Thanks

What is the difference between triac and mosfet

CAN WE USE MOSFET FOR AC. IF YES HOW, SWITCHING WITH ARDUINO

haha oke

Any schematics for time delay switch for 4 dc motors like starting engines one by one for the scale model out there please?

Never trust the autorider!

So I happpen to work with a MOSFET (quiet similar in values to yours) but with I=7,5 so I get P=5,625 which happens to be greater than 2,4, meaning I need a heat-sink. How do I calculate which heatsink I need? Thanks a ton, nice vids

How did you calculate RDS of 1 amp motor...?

Hey, can I use a LM7824 to get 24 volts from my 120 volt dc battery? Would I need any other parts?

Is there not any website that gives you the serial numbers when you look for a particular type? Like I am looking for a for one with particular voltage and Amp then I fill in what I need and the serial numbers roll out. Some site like that? Somehwere? Anywhere?

hey james i just notice that my mtx jackhammer car amplifier has 4 mosfets  blown and cracked. i i am trying to find a replacement but the part number i just cant seems to find. the part number is N523AG but i have called around an no one has it i have checked online and stll cant find it. this amp was made in 2005 so why is this part number so hard to find. could there be an equivalent. if so where could i find it.  great video love the presentation

But how would you use a P channel MOSFET? Doesn't that switch open at a low signal, instead of high, at the gate?

I see a lot of [Gate-Source Voltage VGS ± 20] how does the +- work and how can i switch this on and off if i have and output of 0-3.3V??

Why the second man dies sir.......

What is "Ta" (Ambient Temperature) at @5:45? is this the room temperature or values came from datasheet?

+Life is illusion My understanding is yes, but I don't know the details. This isn't something I've done myself, so hopefully someone else can provide a better answer.

AddOhms Thanks for answering, I appreciate it. My logic also tells me it is possible, I just wanna see if someone knows the facts before I fry few of my mosfets :D Anyways, I think I will do the tests in couple of weeks and maybe I even make a video about it ^_^

No, doesn't work that way, as during switching any variation between devices will unbalance the voltages and something will explode (yes, definitely explode at those voltages).  You use an IGBT for
1200V anyway, not a MOSFET (well, a SiC MOSFET perhaps, but not a silicon one).

It is possible to balance voltages BJTs in a series string, as the emitter voltages follow the base voltages, but with MOSFETs there is no direct control like this and you can't do it (well, perhaps someone really clever has figured out some scheme using capacitive feedback paths, but I suspect its not worth the bother).

Unless there is other hardware in the circuit, there isn't enough information to answer the question.

You could use the potentiometer with a microcontroller. The pot would provide an analog voltage into the micro which would the provide a PWM signal through the MOSFET to power the motor. The advantage would be you are not wasting power through the potentiometer. 

If you aren't using PWM with a microcontroller, then I don't see why you would need the MOSFET.

---

While I said the MOSFET is "like a variable resistor" there is not enough variation in the resistance to see a significant change in motor speed. Changing from 10mOhm to 1Ohm is practically the same speed.

Thank you for the reply and informative videos.

***** Interesting idea, but working with a resistance in the single-digit ohm range may be more difficult add more components than a low-cost, high-impedance thermister.

Explained in #2 on this list: https://www.baldengineer.com/7-mosfet-myths-and-misconceptions-addressed.html

Because the material scientist that created MOSFETs named them after their electron-flow functions.

 @AddOhms  ok thanks

+Bill Durham Depends on how the motor is driven. Probably outside of the scope I can help you with.

A TRIAC is an AC switch.

+parveen arora No.

I have absolutely no idea what you are asking.

+Jens Emil Hansen That's an entire video in itself. In short, see if you can find a heatsink that gives its thermal resistance (like 23C/W). Add that to the "junction to case" resistance given in the datasheet for the transistor (like 5C/W). If you calculate the MOSFET will burn 5 Watts, our example heat sink (23C/W) + transistor case (5C/W) will give a junction temperature of 28C/W * 5Watts = 140C. If the max junction is 150C, that heat sink would be fine. 


I picked 23C/W because that's the cheapest "wing type" heat sink for TO-220 Packages.

+AddOhms Didn't expect an answer like that, that's pretty cool :) Thanks man
I really enjoy your videos

Rds is the MOSFET’s property’s not the motor’s.

I doubt any LM7824 is rated for such a high input voltage. With 96V drop across In and Out, more than 10 mA of current means it'll be dissipating 1 W of power. Seems like there must be a better way.

+Telephone Telephone I think you mean "part number", not "serial number." I use the component distributor Mouser for this kind of search. www.mouser.com

+AddOhms Wow Thanks that is a very fast answer. Thank you Sir.

+kurtis Douglas Sorry, I have no idea. Try searching for partial part numbers. Part of the number may be a customer (the company that made the amp) specific part number, part of it maybe lot/date codes.  It is pretty common for shipping products to have parts without part numbers (or customer specific part numbers) to prevent copying.

I believe you got yourself a date code and or manufacture lot code not the part number. 23 week of 2005 possibly. Are there any other markings? Are they on the smps side or the amplifier side?

Voltages are relative. N-Channel needs gate to be higher than source. P-Channel needs gate to be lower than source. That’s why it’s threshold is “negative.”

You're looking at the "Absolute Max" section and not the "Electrical Characteristics." Absolute max is the range of voltages that will start to degrade (destroy) the transistor.

TY for quick response +1 Sub :D

Ambient means the local environment. If the part is in open air, that’s room temperature. If it’s inside of a box, it’d whatever the temperature is there.

What is the reason for the resistor in the gate circuit?

Why is my mosfet turning on without Gate voltage? As soon as i connect my battery to the circuit without closing the switch for the gate, i get current flowing to my circuit.....

Does this MOSFET  turn off @0V ? Or we have give negetive pulse voltage to turn off ?

I'm trying to find how to flash an LED panel at 80 times per second (5khz).  Could you point me in the right direction so I know at least what to research? Thanks!

dude has an OHM shaped chin

Can a MOSFET be used for amplification purposes

do you know when level shifter back-bias will result ?

I've got some FQL 30N06L that are acting in reverse. They're closed unless voltage is applied to the gate in which case they open. I notice you're using the same ones but they're normal-open vs the normal-closed I have -- am I doing something wrong or are my fets just mislabeled some how?

feliratal kérem

what is the purpose of the resistence in the video?

If the resistance in on or if im milli ohm so thats enough to make the load on in both case !
Can u make this more clear please?

how can I find K value from  datasheet.

what is the reason for having a resistor at the gate, if MOSFETs are all about voltage?

Isn't this similar to an SCR ? switching a gate

celsius

How would you calculate the Gate series resistor?    Or would you just put a 100ohm on it and call it good?   I just want to make sure the current draw is low enough to not cause issues on an Arduino.  I'm looking at the datasheet and not seeing a reference to the voltage drop on GS.

Thank you for this, i was experimenting with a mosfet(IRF740 stolen from a charger) and did not know how to connect it up.
After hooking it up correctly it would not turn off(after being connected the first time). After a lot of struggeling i accedently shorted G(1) and S(3). I then realize i maybe had to leak of the voltage of G(1). Dug up a 10Kohm resistor from my arduino kit and wrapped it on. That worked like a charm.
Is this a normal case and a correct solution to this problem i had?

I just went over the concept of dissipation and thermal resistance calculations for MOSFETs and opened a few IGBT datasheets do repeat the exercise for IGBTs.

Now for MOSFETS, at 24V and 35A with 20kHz switching, I got losses of say 3W max for many cheap MOSFETS (RDSon about 2mOhm). So even a cheap heatsink, say 18K/W would be 72C above Ambient. 

For the IGBTS I saw, a general value of total switching energy Eon+off is 5mJ. So switching losses at 4kHz are 20W. Add to that about 2Vx5A=10W of conduction losses and you have 30W per IGBT....

Is this right or am I making a mistake (hopefully). 

For 30W, even 3K/W of thermal resistance will make the IGBT unusable.

What am I doing wrong?

So, do you have the datasheet for the Sygnetics write only memory. You know the one with F.I.N.O. (First in Never out) buffers.

I didn't get what does Vgs is used for. In the datasheet is 2(min)<Vgs<4 (max) so that's the Gate voltage, right? What happens if the voltage is lower or higher that those values?

The gate is a small capacitor. It helps to limit the in-rush current from an I/O pin. Depending on the microcontroller used, the size of the gate capacitance, and the switching frequency it is optional. In general, it helps more than it hurts.

Thank you. My interest is in dual gate depletion MOSFET's @AddOhms 

The gate is like a floating pin. It can get charged up enough from stray EM fields to open the channel. The pin should be tied low (or high) to ensure it remains off when nothing else is connected.

 @AddOhms  Ive spend my whole night without sleeping to get a mosfet switch done. It was me destroying the mosfet Drain (its on the Backpad) by overheating it. I got a new one and just connected it with a aligator clip and everything worked.
It seems that the back pad is very difficult to solder. I scratch the back till i see bare metal and even tried Acid as a flux but nothing works. 
But ok i know what was wrong now.

Turns off when the voltage between Gate and Source is less than the Vgs-threshold.

You can either use an arduino with some loops or build a 555 timer circuit, using a transistor to drive it.

hey thanks! i was looking at a 555 timer but i was not sure about the limitation of the cycles/sec.

Yes.

No

+Michael Riddle Probably mislabeled. (Also  I think you have a typo unless you didn't mean FQP30N06L). Sounds more like a depletion mode mosfet.

Limits the in rush current to the gate. A MOSFETs gate is like a capacitor. On a BJT you limit the current because the Base-Emitter junction is a diode.

ayman zayed Sorry, I don't understand your question. When you say "on" do you mean "ohm"?

I ask if the resistance range at the on case very smale range between 12 to 17 m ohm so how this can give us ability to controll the load? In transistor the resistance change for open to close so we are able to control the load as we like but her is diffrent, can u clear it about the mosfet? 

You can calculate it like this: http://forum.allaboutcircuits.com/threads/fixed-gain-mosfet-help.69397/#post-481403

The gate is a small capacitor. The resistor limits in-rush current.

 @AddOhms  thank you! makes sense

No. Gate has a different meaning for SCRs. It triggers the rectifier, which is useful for detecting the zero crossing of an AC signal. 

Gate of a MOSFET controls how wide the channel is between the drain and source.

+CharlesDourdy The gate resistor depends on how fast you are switching the FET and how fast you want it to turn on. If speed isn't critical (frequency less than 10 kHz) , then something like 1k is fine.

Thank you for that.    I'm not interested in frequency in this case.  More about using it as an on/off switch. (less than 1Hz -  On for 20 sec, Off for 3 days, etc.)     I'll start with a 1K ohm and test from there, maybe use a pot to make sure, then swap it for a standard resistor of the right value.  For my purpose it might be better to just use a Arduino pre-made "relay shield", but building a circuit with a MOSFET would be cooler.  :)

I have absolutely no idea what you did.

I drew what i did. On the left drawing you can i placed a 10Kohm resistor between G and S. http://prntscr.com/iym9m4

+Chinmay Harkare Sounds correct. This is why heat sink design for high power MOSFETs and IGBTs is so critical.

+AddOhms But that means that an IGBT rated for 100s of Amps actually requires a monstrous heatsink even for carrying 2-3A. The switching losses are insane... I mean 20W. And 30W total makes that tiny TO-3P dissipating the same amount of heat as my soldering iron.

? No. Why would I?

I had a copy years ago and it was hilarious.

The range accounts for the variation that occurs during manufacturing. That spec says any voltage below 2 volts ensures the FET is off and anything above 4 volts ensures it is on. Between 2 and 4 volts, the FET may turn-on. The output characteristics graph shows how "hard" the FET turns on with higher Vgs voltages. If it says 4V, you should be using at least 5V to turn it on. (Most FETs like 10-15V.) More information here: https://bald.ee/mosfet-curves

 @AddOhms  thank you. Last question. If let’s say, the graph shows that when supplying 6V the ID is 10A, but my power supply only gives up to 5A and the load that I have connected uses 2A, then what will happen? Thanks in advance

Hi, thank you for your video. i have 3 mosfet STP60NS04Z and MBR3045CT diode in a ABS unit; my problem is every time the engine reaches temperatures close to 90 C, they switch on the power to the pump causing a fault in system. The question is if the threshold is 175 C based on the data sheet why do they switch on?
Would appreciate your take on this. Thank you

so what would a 3034 mosfet in parallel come to?

Can't find the vid about heatsink calculation. Was it never made or is it removed?

what's the D in P sub D? Drain? Could it also be correct to say P sub max-without-heatsink?

Very clear, now where is that tree ? North side of tree , right ? Oh *!+&#$. Watch videe again . Thanks Jimbo !

i want to build a coilgun. Can a mosfet handle MASSIVE ammounts of current for a very short ammount of time? I'm talking about 50 - 100 amps. It basically needs to discharge a 10000 uf cap at 50 volts through a coil with a low resistance. I want to control it with a 12 volt signal from a switch (do i need to debounce that with a small cap?).

to: AddOhms : Can I use a N channel mosfet to make a voltage Regulator ? thank!

Moment Wellen Peltirelement umladung?

So if I see a NPN transistor with a datasheet but it defines Base, Collector, Emitter can that be used in similar applications ?  Vceo=60,Vcb=70,Veb=5

Hello thanks for the tutorial! I have a question, I have irfz44 mosfet I would like know if they work in logic level his data sheet say Gate threshold voltage min 2 max 4?

Hello James, Now I'm repairing a Speaker Amplified.
Manufacturer: Monster, Model Number: Rocking Roller 3, This Item is not Power On.
I Review the Power Supply and the printed circuit of the board were burned also, part of a resistance that is connected to the Drain of a Mosfet, The part number of the Mosfet is ISA07N65A, as it burned part of the resistance I do not know what its the value of there, I already checked in the manufacturer's page, but does not show the diagram, to see the part. could you help me to know  what is the burned resistance?
The part number of the power supply is KA1658 Rev. 1.0

I have been driving 16 IRLB 8748 MOSFETs with 74LS595  shift register. The problem is the mosfets gets on unwantedly without serialy communating. Please help to get rid of this.

Can I use this for switch on and off the AC220V light(loads) ?.

If mosfets  are voltage dependent, why do you use a resistor on the gate, please

Hi, is this formula, 5:43, general for all transistors, I mean BJT and MOSFETs, or it only applies to MOSFETs?

The symbol used for the transistor is not right for the explanation that you gave. if you apply 0v to gate, the transistor will conduct.

Can you use MOSFETs to make logic gates and combine those to make even a simple processor?

Can a mosfet be turned on/off 13000 times for minutes?

So, is this a way to keep high current out of switches? Maybe for safety or switch size concerns? I'm still trying to grasp how it "switches". What breaks the current when a mosfet is switched off? Is that a dumb question? 

(P.S., I am educated, but never in anything like engineering, so this is my latest brain challenge.)

Can I use a logic MOSFET, to control a larger, higher current & voltage, non-logic MOSFET?

If a relay, is just a low voltage circuit, switching a high voltage circuit, so I can use small switches & buttons, instead of comically large ones.

Then can I use a low voltage, logic MOSFET, to control a bigger MOSFET, so I don't need a comically large potentiometer?

7

175C is the junction temperature. In other words at the actual silicon.  The "thermal resistance" of the epoxy means the surface temperature has to be much lower.

Alright, thank you

+zZcommandoZz I don't understand your question.

lol sorry for the miss wording, so if i have two 3034 mosfets running in parallel what would be the amp/volts

+Oerjan Snell Hasn't been made yet.

“Dissipated Power”

great! 
- "Dissipated" means lost as heat, right? 
- So P sub D means amount of power lost as heat, right? 
- Therefor, P sub D DOESN'T mean "max without heatsink", right? 
- It just means, at a given input V and I, with a given fet, your fmla will tell us the max P sub D we can handle without heatsink, right? 
- Therefor, your fmla gives us "Max P sub D without heatsink", and not just "P sub D", correct?
- Therefor, would it be clearer in the vid to write the fmla as: "Max P sub D without heatsink =", instead of just "P sub D ="?

Thx!~

I haven't done something like that, but you'd want to make sure the MOSFET could handle the dv/dt of the pulse you're pushing through it. I'm sure there's limits, but also sure there is one that does what you want.

+12vdc why not use an automotive relay? That current level is available  but actually thats the same voltage /coil as most 90's pinball games that used P20N10L to pulse the flipper impulse coil [3 ohms] you might wanna put a diode across that coil if you stop current suddenly with no path for the magnetic field collapse back voltage [7X supply volt spike]

Just the transistor by itself, no. Linear regulators can use either BJTs or MOSFETs in their design. Along with a comparator and a precision voltage reference (like a diode).

Thank so much! Can you help me to compare a Power trench Mosfet and 1 Hexfet or 1 common mosfet (difference ) thank you!!!

Bitte?

+S Burnham I'm not sure I understand your question. An NPN is a BJT, which was covered in #10: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sRVvUkK0U80.

+AddOhms : I have a MJE3055T SGS-Thomson and the datasheet talks about "power switching circuits and general-purpose amplifiers". My original question was to see if BASE COLLECTOR EMITTER terminology was interchangeable with  GATE DRAIN SOURCE discussed on your videos.  I assume there are differences, I was hoping to use this to control brightness of led strip by PWM with Arduino, but I'm questioning if ... "this is not the type of transistor I'm looking for".

+S Burnham3 A BJT can by used in similar applications, but only for switching fairly small currents.

+Nelson Arias Mendez It will turn on with "logic level" voltages, but it'll operate at it's low-end. So don't expect the maximum rated current through it, with only a 5V Vgs.

+AddOhms I don't understand, I'm working with them to 5 volts but they are heated,  am turning on a unipolar stepper motor of 5 volts dc 3.3 A. using this configuration http://s2.subirimagenes.com/otros/previo/thump_9464451mosfet1.jpg in in each phase , do you know why this happen?

I have absolutely zero clue.

I don’t understand what you are asking. My guess is you need pull-down or pull-up resistors to hold the FETs in a known state when the 595 goes high impedance.

Thanks for your valuable advice
HC595 out > ---/\/\/\/\------to gate of mosfet
                              1k        |
                                         > 10 k pull down
                                         <
                                          |
                                      gnd
above is schematic I used for MOSFET IRLB 8748 ( Its VGS = +- < 20v and VGS th = 4.5v)
When I boot up my mcu some time all the mosfets are on and some time random. Even if I communicate 0 to all the mosftet gates through HC595 then all the mosfets goes off but after some time random mosfet gets on  with no communication.
Regards........Manjeet

AddOhms Please make a video about Triac.

No. You would need a triac.

yes make a video! :D

A MOSFET's gate is a small capacitor. When a voltage is first applied, a capacitor draws a lot of current. The resistor is there to provide a small amount of current limiting. It protects the device driving the MOSFET.

AddOhms, thanks alot for your reply. I have a better understanding now

It's a generic thermal dissipation equation.

AddOhms thank you very much, When you said safe to use without a sink, does it means that the transistor reaches its thermal equilibrium with the ambient so it will not increase more and more its temperature while time goes on?

+Matthew Ferrie Yes, of course.

James Lewis
How?

+Matthew Ferrie Use complementary pair (=CMOS technology) So for each input, you will have 2 MOSFETs (1 N type and other P type) There are many schematics out there that say how simple elements are formed. 1 2-NAND requires you to have 4-MOSFETs together and that's not all. I would recommend going for a simple processor that operates on stack technology (if you seriously consider putting one together yourself but it's hell of a job to do...). They also sell logic chips that already have needed wireing done for you and you simply can plug-and-play. Doing a very simple processor design is not that difficult actually but requires of you to understand discrete mathematics and boolean logic.

+Marek Grencštein like Thanks!

Easily. That's only 13 kHz. Very common for a switching MOSFET.

+Rory Stevens Charge carriers between the N and P layers become available (or not available) when a voltage (electric field) is applied. 

Veritasium (science youtube channel) has an excellent video on how the junctions work on a material level.

Thank you, I will check it out. 

To control a high voltage, high amp draw, pair of motors?

Yes. It is called a driver. You could even use a small signal NPN to turn on the load FET, with the load voltage, providing a much larger Vgs.

Hey there! I have a question: what happens when a MOSFET is not in the place it should be? :) I recieved a PC PSU from a friend. He has it for some time but only used it for like 2 days, because he had a problem, everything worked ok, till he played games. After 20 minutes of gaming the PSU would turn off. He went to the shop he got it from, and they said the PSU is ok, it is because of his configuration, it is too much for the PSU. So I put it on my configuration, that is not that power hungry, and the same thing, power off after 30 mins of gaming. I opened the PSU, examined it, an foud out that one of the three MOSFETs that should be there on the heatsink, is not, There is only a hole for the screw and thermal paste, but no MOSFET. I managed to find the number of the missing part: FDP 18N50. By soldering the MOSFET in it's place would make the PSU work correctly? The PSU is an Arctic Fusion rated at 550w, and the test PC is an old Intel Dual Core 2,66Ghz, Nvidia GTS 450, 4GB RAM. Thank you!

Picture:  http://s8.postimg.org/g4kdq1fzp/DSCN3013.jpg

Hi, I have a question, when you talk about the current the motor will drop do you refer to the current the motor needs to gets on or the remaining current after the motor gets on?  Thank you (I´m a petroleum eng and I´m trying electronics a little bit)

In other words if you get a blue puff of smoke you got it wrong !

Strange, I do the calculation as stated, but my mosfet still got too hot and seems like it got damaged
I was using it IRLB3034PbF to control the 12V 18A heater, when it started smoking and got really hot. I did poorly connect it though (by using alligator clips), was that the problem?

What does this mean ? Drain Source Voltage Vds = 20V

H2O2= hydrogen peroxide. Thus he's history

Im trying to use my arduino UNO to send a +5V signal to a mosfet to drive a 24V solenoid. i know that i need a diode across the solenoid to protect it. What i don't know is how to pick the right mosfet. I know that i needs to be logic compatible. My power supply is 24VAC 750mA. the in rush current of the solenoid is 0.35A @ 24 VAC. The holding current is 0.23A @ 24VAC.

my mosfet vgs is +/- 20v. what does this mean

My datasheet shows "50 K/W" as the unit for the thermal resistance measurement... what is that in C?

FQP30N06L is obsolete?  What's a good substitute?

Around 4:30, you use the depleted mode symbol (continuous grid) instead of the enhanced mode symbol (dashed grid), is it intentional ?

 But my main question is about the curent. Is the MOSFET a "polarized" device (like a diode, or some capacitor) or not? Can we "accidently" exchange the drain with the source without problem (I think not, considering that it is the drain which is linked to the flange for heat dissipation, not the source, but just to be sure, in EVERY cases/flavor of channels and modes of MOSFET and CMOS).

And a second question (or a third one, really), what is the buzz about the "substrate"?  It is part of the symbol (well, the one that you used as well as some other, but not each and every symbol of MOSFET have it), but most author just mention that it is linked to the source(s), (with the plural referring to multiple MOSFET made out on the same, single piece of, substrate), that it is sometimes part of the symbol, and from there, well, just forget about it !!! (Poor guy, condemned to anonymat for eternity)

And, sure, thanks for your videos. They have a nice unique "signature".

When to use P=R*I^2 , and when do you use P=U*I !?

The datasheet of my MOSFET gives Rds=1.2 ohm to 5 ohm. 
Im pulling around 80 mA.
The Vdd = 11-17 V

If a use the formula described in this video I get P=0.032 W, if I use the other formula P=1.3 W

Wah ha ha. "Wrong script."

Ok I watched it again.   .027 ohms drain to source at 10 volts (gate to source). And it goes up to .035 ohms at 5 volts G to S. That does not tell me how this can work as variable resistor. It seems to be closer to an on or off transistor.

Hydrogen peroxide. Cute!

牛逼了

why does the second man dies?

what software do you use to make these animations?

Do you make videos targeted to those who are not beginners?

hmmm I am trying to learn about MOSFET's so I can make checks on a "dead laptop motherboard" and to find out any dead components .... not getting far here :(

+Theo S. It seems worth a try, if you can't return it, but I think I'd try complaining first.  It may have other faults.

Are those three MOSFETs all wired in parallel?  I guess it's possible they make more than one version of the PSU, and only add the third for a higher power version.

A motor's windings are a large coil, or inductor. When voltage is applied, current through that coil generates a magnetic field. When voltage is removed, the magnetic field begins to collapse. As it collapses, it generates current. The diode is there to provide a lossy path for that brief surge of energy.

 @AddOhms  Ok thank you for the answer, I understand about the diode funtion on inductors (just like relays), I´m talking about the remaining current when the motor is turned on, I mean, where the currents that is dicipatted is comming from? after the motor or before it. (Sorry about my english)

Yes. Unfortunately, it is a one-time tell and it comes too late. :)

Bad power supplies also causes havoc with these things .. they get hot

"Seems like it got too hot" is not a measurement. Assuming a 5 volt Vgs, the Rds-on is 2 milliohms. With 18 amps through the drain, you can calculate power dissipation using P = I * I * R. Which comes out to be P = 0.02 * 18 * 18 = 0.648 W. Using the Tja (junction to ambient) of 62 C/W, the transistor temperature rise will be Trise = 62 * 0.648 = 40C. So at room temperature the junction (and eventually the case) will be 65-70C. 

Max junction for this transistor is 175C. So you're well below max junction. But well into a region where a human would call it "hot."

 @AddOhms  Yeah due to the calculation, you should be right. I guess either bad product or any other defect. The "it got too hot" eventually made the color turn a lil bit brown (probably due to oxidation), and smoke comes out of it. As of now, I try it with LED Strip, it still works but I can't turn the LED off. I can only dim in to a certain level. I'll just get myself a new irlb3034 and let's hope nothing goes wrong with it.

Thanks for the reply anyway, appreciate it !

It is the voltage drop from Drain to Source.

So this component will drop 20 volts? & this means I must apply 32V to the Drain in order to get 12V from this component at the source?

http://ee.farnell.com/vishay/si2302dds-t1-ge3/mosfet-n-ch-20v-2-6a-sot-23-3/dp/2400359

why not use relay?

+Haitham Adwan You can't use a MOSFET to control AC. You need a Triac or SCR.

i want to use a triac. I know i can use a relay but i wanna make it this way.

+Hilmi Albums relay is big and makes sounds and olso you cant make different resistense.

hurmmm ..

You’re looking at the absolute max section and not the “electrical characteristics” section.

 @AddOhms  correct. iam being dumb. mine is a typical on voltage of 3v. not sure if this would work on an arduino with using pwm.


thanks for your quick reply, hope your doing well

+Moo Spyker What part number / datasheet?

+snnwstt The body diode makes it (nearly) imposiible to reverse drain and source.

Algebra says the equations are the same. You are getting different numbers because your assumption for Rds is wrong. If Vds is 6 volts and the current is 80mA, RdsOn is 75 ohms. (Which is ridiculous.)

You need to measure the actual Vds drop and the actual Id to calculate RdsON or Power.

 @AddOhms  Thanks a lot :) We made a linesensor at school, just needed some calculations to backup the project

If you want a variable resistor, you want a JFET. Not an enhancement-mode FET. As you pointed out, the variation on an enhancement-mode is very small.

 @AddOhms   Oh no I have to learn something new again.    I'll check it out.

I can read some (traditional) Chinese characters and know a couple of phrases. This is one of them. ;) Thank you.

我非常喜欢你制作的视频，具有很好的教育意义，加油！！！

H2O2 = hydrogen peroxide

Combination of Motion, FCPX, Auditon, Illustrator, Photoshop, Scrivener, and After Effects.

Not yet. The live streams I do are less beginner focused. And I do videos targeting professionals on other channels, like these capacitor videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PxmtxV5n2KM&list=PLa3x8V-ZYWEUNRPUyCTjknYUhI9vvDZu9

Without a schematic, understanding of the original circuit, or an identical functioning board, it is difficult to troubleshoot.  

There aren't a lot of discrete transistors on most computer boards anymore.

where do they get those schematics from anyway .... ??? I am trying to find one for my HP COMPAQ 610 .but no luck :(

Do you know or have an idea what has failed on the motherboard? The first rule to diagnosing is "Thou shall test potentials" In other words, first make sure that your PSU has the appropriate voltages on the output, with and without a load. (that is important because you may find that although it has voltage on the output, the internal impedance of the supply is WAY too high (like fried shunt resistors) and the voltage sags when under load.)

If everything checks out correctly, make sure that the voltage regulators on the motherboard itself are working properly. You can easily get an idea where they are based on their proximity to important power-hungry things like the CPU, and all the big fat parts that surround them (like inductors, filters, maybe transformers, electrolytic capacitors, large, fat traces on the mobo, etc.)

If they measure out to be something expected like 1.1V, 3V, 3.3V, 5V, 12V, -12V, etc and are very stable and don't get super hot when operating, they are likely fine. If, however, you find a voltage somewhere that is much higher than expected, there is a possibility a surge has killed small digital parts that would be a pain to find data for, source, solder and rework, etc. Basically it would be more economical to replace the mobo with a new, better one. (AND get a better quality PSU!!!!!!!)
If voltages happen to be none at all, or floating all over the place, like a nominal 12V rail randomly going everywhere from 3V to 9V without rhyme or reason),the the fault could have resulted from a short circuit and killed the regulators. Generally digital stuff will survive that. (Man, this comment got long quick!)

are all MOSFET's the same or no?

Hello, do I really need a resistor at the gate? I had the impression that MOSFETS have very high resistance at the gate so resistor would be pointless, sorry hobbyist here...

Never trust the auto-router..
Why..?

BJT are a bit cheaper

I need 35 amps DC at 40v switched on off at 2000 HZ I AM HAVIG A LOT OF PROBLEMS HAHA PEASE HELP

Great video and excellent presentation, cutting though a lot of boring numbers in a useful way.
I am wondering though, could I just purchase a MOSFET that is about 5 times overrated for the application, and not worry about the temperature? I'm not worried about the price or size, just want piece of mind.
Thanks

You dont need that resistor  on the gate...

So let me get this straight.. If you are finding mosses in an appliance, something is not right?

Who uses a sharpie on a white board?

Don't agree at all with the comparison at the beginning though. BJT's can be used just as well in high current applications. Mosfets are just more efficient.

Like for the joke about trees

Nice video btw you are really bald.

I tried to buy a T-shirt but Teespring is broken. It won't let me add the the cart. Just FYI

Why does current flow from DRAIN to SOURCE? Whoever came up with the naming scheme must've been trolling everyone.

I'll start pointing electric Nerf modders here, since MOSFETS are useful in LiPo mods.

It would be incorrect to claim that MOSFETs are better at carrying high current. Power BJTs can generally carry similar amounts of current to MOSFETs. Power BJTs are very common in amplifiers and in linear regulators and function better in these applications. MOSFETs tend to be used for high speed switching.

Dammit! I thought H2O2 was heavy water, which relatively is safe to drink. :(  I forgot that's H2O also but with deuterium instead of plain Hydrogen. :(  looses 1 point from geek cred

Dayyyum. Electronics is so confusing. "Current can flow when no voltage is applied." I thought you need voltage for current to flow!

Never trust the autorouter.

Would these be used in car electric seats? or would lgbt's be used? Thanks

No. If they were all the same, there would not be so many different types.

Don't worry, I found the answer, something about ringing, these parasitic capacitances and inductances have always been a pain in ass...

It is because the gate is a small capacitor. The resistor helps to limit inrush current but can also dampen ringing, due to that parasitic. Last night (and maybe tonight) I am live streaming while I make a board to demonstrate those effects.

Have you used one for nay complex task? And then analysed the results if the circuit fails to work?

That's more than I can help here. You might try post on one of the popular electronics forums instead.

+ArcanePath360 I agree with that general design philosophy - for the likes of us, not necessarily for commercial purposes.

I think the answer is "Probably, yes", but it could still get hotter than it should, without a heatsink, if you're switching enough amps - so fit one (or bolt it to a lump of scrap metal) and you should be fine.

You'd still need to check that the switch-on threshold voltage (Gate - Source) was low enough for your application though.  Some can be switched at very low voltages, e.g. 2.5V or so.

+TooSlowTube   Thanks. I did end up using a sink. It got pretty hot without. Even with it, I have a thermistor hot glued in place and my Arduino is programmed to cut out when the temp gets too hot

Yes, in some cases, you do need it.

 @AddOhms  why do you use it here?

Instructions unclear. It was probably explained in the section of the Wikipedia page I didn’t print out.

In 5 years, you might be the first one to notice the joke. Or at least, say so.

 @AddOhms  haha awesome! 👍

Yup, it is why I said "in general." It gives people a starting point for when they don't know where to start.

Ah alright, understandable :p

Hey, thank you for supporting me with a shirt! Maybe there was a temporary problem? I was just able to add to cart and I know others have bought them in the past. Cheers. -James

The troll was named Benjamin Franklin. If you use electron flow for analysis, electrons flow from source to drain.

+2randomcrap3 Nerf? Like the footballs?

Like the flywheel dart blasters

+Andrew Somerville No. It would be incorrect to say ONLY MOSFETs can carry high current. Which I did not. I said "generally."

AddOhms I'm sorry to press the issue, but "generally" is incorrect as well. The vast majority of MOSFETs are used in switching applications and their use (by professionals) outside of this realm is rare. Their use in linear power amplifiers (aka: not class D) has steadily declined with the exception of the mid-80s when some lateral devices were used. Vertical HEXFETs are rarely used in linear power applications as they significantly complicate design and the lateral devices have mostly been discontinued. This is because inexpensive high current complimentary BJTs tend to yield lower distortion and higher power at a lower cost with less complex driving circuitry. 

I'm a power amplifier designer so I'm keenly aware of the near ubiquity of BJTs in this application, as well as in applications like servo motor controllers, which are essentially just power amplifiers. Essentially any non-switching high current application. Like a lot of power amplifier guys, I was excited about the possibilities of MOSFETs being better amplifying devices, but such devices currently don't exist. Again, you do see them in Class D amps because they are switching amplifiers, not linear. 

The only useful thing I know about heavy water is that it means ramen taste delicious.

 @AddOhms  lol!

... when no voltage is applied to the GATE. Still need a voltage drop across the drain and source.

 @AddOhms  mmm okay thanks

I don't know what kind of motor is used. However, I doubt it is very high voltage. So I would image it is either a Power BJT or MOSFET, but not a IGBT.

RTX ON

Very interesting but I find some discrepancies because your formula for heat is too simple and not taking everything into account.  Example - Rds(on) = 2m ohm, current 6.6A, Ambient 25c, and R0JA 62.5c I get Tj as of 30.445c which is far less than the 175c the part can handle.  In your example you are only looking at the ambient and the 175c then dividing by R0JA which eliminates Rds(on) and the current through it.  I have two mosfets and all data is the same except Rds(on).  One is 2m ohm and the other is 20 m ohm and the 20 m ohm will burn you (I know I have a blister from it) where as the 2m ohm Rds(on) isn't even warm (less than body temp).

Hydrogen, OH I get it. He died because he consumed hydrogen h2o2. Water being h2o hydrogen being h2o2. Edited for Roy Riederer.

If you drink water you survive, but if you drink the other stuff you die of course. Nice chem joke.

sorry I am bipolar and need to go to the other video...

Omg, the intro's joke is somehow witty but bad at the same time

Nice shirt, where can I get it?

Ha ha ha ha; wrong moss.

This is the first one of your videos that I've seen... I like your style.

Helpful video. Shouldn't have stopped for the joke at the start.

Something something Boba Fett something something BLT. Got it. Gosh, this stuff is too easy for me!

Fantastic information l love it thanks for posting....

Mosfet design its everywere i noticed it at the dollar store floor design i wonder how that works

Nicely done. Informative and helpful. Thanks.

Very confused rigth now 😕😕😕

What kind of mosfets do you use in a ebike controller.

Hello,
Very nice video! Many common SMD MOSFETs (SOT-23) like BSS138 (From Diodes Inc.) has a very low V(GSTH) gate threshold voltage 1.5v for example. How that means we cannot connect them with I/O line of common MCU that operate at 3.3 or 5v?

Hi great video. I have a dout about the mosfet. Can they be operated on AC voltage as well, let's say to to swich on some appliance at home (single mosfet), or do I need to have a second one and build some kind of an inverted circuit to use the full AC wave. Best regards Hélio Cabral

great video and learning many new thing. i have one of question, how to select MOSFET for any smps device, like 6N60, 8N60.... 20N60 are different types of mosfet. so, how can i select for particular design. please explain it.

Isn't electron current flow from source to drain rather than drain to source as in your video?

Huh?

 @AddOhms  Its a stupid pun of mine.Rtx is the new feature of nvidias 20series graphics cards (ray tracing).You said Rds (on) and Nvidia had been for the last months always saying  Rtx on to promote their new feature .... you get me :P

+legalizeshemp420  As I said, first we calculate how much power the junction generates (5:17), using Rds(on), and then we calculate the maximum power the package can dissipate (6:06). In this example, the package can easily dissipate the junction's heat, without a heat sink.


I agree there would be discrepancies if you change Rds on, the current, the thermal difference, and the thermal resistance.

+AddOhms Yep, I saw those but in the end I didn&#39;t really see it all mesh out for me.  Oh, here is a nice calculator I use for this stuff if you would like it ... http://snuletek.org/calculators/fetTjCalc/

H2O2

He consumed hydrogen peroxide.

Hydrogen atoms are just H - hydrogen molecules are H2 - Hydrogen PEROXIDE is H2O2 (dangerous).

Yep, that's what I said. H2O2 is hydrogen peroxide. Great cleaning solution... just don't drink it. Also a great disinfectant which can then be completely washed away with water leaving no traces.
Edited for Gunlover1955.

+Syazani Nazarudin Sadly, you might be out of luck (for now). http://teespring.com/autorouter

Wrong.

 @AddOhms  do you know the one about the two atoms crossing a road? One said "I think I lost an electronic." The other asked if he were sure. He replied "I'm positive."

Probably ones that handle high power.

 @AddOhms  ok how about a 36 volt  . What volt mosfets would you need thank you for your reply.

Sorry for the stupid question :-( . I got the answer myself! Its not the V(GS) whose max value is 1.5v its the V(GSTH)

I simply warned that not ALL MOSFETs are suitable for "logic level" operation.

You need a triac or scr for AC

In that case, the difference is the current capability. So you would pick based on that.

Yes. And (about) the only place you see that is in school. For circuit analysis the direction doesn’t matter. Current is a complete look. As long as you use the and model for the entire circuit, it doesn’t matter which you use.

 @AddOhms   I wouldn't be able to understand vacuum tubes using that model, but for everything else you'd be right.  Just curious as to why the other way makes more sense to you?

Can somebody explain to me how is MOSFET not a relay? Dont these do the exact same thing? And yet on the wikipedia page about relays there not a single mention about a MOSFET, only Solid-state relay, so I must be wrong. Please explain to me how am I wrong? How is a MOSFET not a realy?

can anyone tell me the editor used here?

교수님이 이 사람 영상 보라고 하셨는데 뭔 개소린지 모르겠다

First of all: thank you for your video that describes how you can use MOSFETs. I need a MOSFET that is fully turned on at 2.6V or less to use as amplifier for a signal from the phototransistor inside a MCT6 / ILD74 optocoupler. When I visit the website  of most of the websites carrying similar models, there is usually a sign next to it that tells me that it is obsolete and won't be produced anymore, let alone in THT format...

Could someone explain why there is a resistor between the voltage source and the gate?

Precise and rich contents on MOSFETs . This channel deserves more subscribers 👍

Hi, Can you explain what the Gate-Source voltage is and what it means when speccing out a mosfet?

How do you calculate the power consumption of a relay? E.g., SONG CHUAN 833H datasheet says: Coil Rating (DC)  Rated voltage 6V, Rated current 60mA, Coil resistance 100ohm. How come the Power consumption at rated voltage is approx. 0.36W?

im going to have to look at my tech school books again, i thought mosfets was low resistance at the source and drain and gate until voltage was applied to gate then flow was lowered not like FET transisters that was high at the source and drain like a bipolar transistor going to have refresh my memory.

To use a Mosfet as a switch is it necessary to use a pull down resistor on the gate to turn the Fet off once the 5 volt logic is returned to a low state. I thought that once the device turned on it can use the current running through it to stay on.

So which MOSFET works like a normally open switch that uses ground to close it?

I wonder, why is the drain called drain and the outflow from the transistor a source?
It’s counter intuitive.
The gate I’d call „control“ as it controls the flow between drain and source.
The most confusing thing I find is the labelling of the pinouts.

Great video. Very well presented. I'm looking to Voltage limit a battery charger. A trickle charger say 3A and limited to 15VDC. It would be nice for you to go over how to calculate and select the components for this circuit. You're talking to a real novice with a keen interest who just discovered you. I apologize if this is too simple :)

So, why do switching power supplies use mosfet instead of relays. Wouldn't relays have smaller power dissipations?

I know very little about this and am sure others have similar questions. 
Yes gate drain and source are simple enough to understand but please explain how you connect what to what.

How we can majar mosfate

You could have fixed that moss script error in post. Pretty unprofessional to leave that in...

It doesn't seem right that the power capacity is to do with the gate resistance. A transistor might do 100 amps with a gate resistance of 5 milliohms but have a total power of 200watts. How then does it overheat with a heatsink in 30 degree ambient

At 1:49 you say ¨depletion mosfet works like a normally closed switch. Current can flow when no voltage is applied.¨
1. I thought normally closed means no current flows.
2. How can current flow when no voltage is applied? Is it kind of shortcutted generator?

the current leakage between D to S is a problem in mosfets not very good in a switching mode

They are completely different. Relays are mechanical with moving parts. MOSFETs (and all transistors) are solid state devices.

 @AddOhms  ​ @AddOhms  Yes, but dont they do the same thing but differently? Could you create a (giant and slow) CPU using relays instead of MOSFETs?

I know these operate differently, but dont they have the same exact fucntion - to control current using voltage on seperate terminals? I know Im wrong, but I dont see how.

Motion

 @AddOhms  thanks man..#Belated

For such a small signal I would use a BJT.

 @AddOhms  That would reduce the output  voltage below TTL levels because of the voltage drop of the junction

Primary reason explained in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bw_ZIye2j64

2:41, 3:14, 4:20, 6:41

Basic Ohm’s/Power law: Power = Current^2 * Resistance

Electrical devices are rated a lot as VA. Volt amps. 6V x .06A = .36W.     And 100 ohms = 6V/.06A . So it all works.

I cannot understand what you are saying. Please use punctuation. But what you seem to describe is a depletion mode FET, and not an enhancement mode FET.

is that a new type of FET transisters from the old type?

many other componants has been made for the last 30years

ok now i know the difference between enhancement and depletion MOSFETS ,its been a while .

Depends on what is driving the gate the signal. If it goes high-Z instead of to 0V, then yes, you would need a pull-down.

P-channel used as a high side switch.

The names are correct and very descriptive. They describe the behavior of the charge carriers.

Hm, hard to get my head around this.
I look at them by how they function / can be used (like the „control“ pin.

3 Amps is not a trickle charger. There are plenty of circuits on the internet that explain how to charge different battery chemistries.

You can’t switch a relay at 100 kHz ...

 @AddOhms  LOL

Huh? That's all this video explains is what to connect where. How else could I explain it?

Zero clue what that means.

Guess I'm just an amateur.

some people just don't understand "humor" do they........

First, it is Drain-Source resistance (Rds). The voltage applied between Gate-Source (Vgs) determines the Rds. In general, the higher the Vgs, the lower Rds. Then it is just a function of the Power Law: Power =  I * I * R. In your case that's 100 * 100 * 0.005 = 50 Watts dissipated by the transistor. (no clue where you came up with 200 watts.) If its package has a thermal resistance (from junction to air) of 62C/W, that means it would rise 3,100 degrees above 30. In other words, you need a heat sink.

1. When a switch it closed, it proves a path for current. When it is open, it stops it. 
2. When no voltage is applied to the gate. Obviously there has to be voltage applied to the drain and source.

 @AddOhms  Now i understand.

Someone should tell the designer of practically every digital device and (low-voltage) DC-DC converter on the market today.

Here because I wanted to know what’s so special MOSFET regulator/rectifiers on motorcycles. Mine needs to turn 85V of AC current into 13-14.5V of DC and dissipate the excessive heat generated.

The best n clear explanation ever I get, u must be a teacher bro

They are also called voltage regulator

You need to connect resistor parallel to the ground, to unload the gate's capacity. Series resistor is a mistake.

Mosfets are next to never used outside of class D operation and terrible with stable variability, they are usually on or off through PWM/square wave drive. Also I have found that sourcing current to mosfets regardless of type is quite important for faster switching some gate drive chips can run 12+ amps for switching such as the 4452YM. Also, I 100% agree with the shirt... EagleCAD can't autoroute anything useful.

What app do you use to make the graphic animation?

Resistance value for D > S? also, Resistance S > D?? mosfet used as controlled diode... perhaps as rectifier/regulator in AC generator

Where's that follow up video you promised?

Why use a series resistor going to the MOSFET? Wouldn't it be better to use a voltage-divider/zener so that you can keep track of the Vgs thus drain current?I believe a better resistor-tuner type circuit would be a voltage div. with a pot going from Gate to Source.



Enjoyed the video. 



Thanks
-Dave

Outstandingly informative and succinct. Apart from the 'moss' bit at the beginning.

1:51 What do you mean 'current can flow when no voltage is applied? @Addohms great vid btw

Great video. Have @ application, lithum battery control feed to GTI(grid tie inverter) to stop from over loading inverter.
THANKS YOU

One thing I would mention is that, unless you enjoy parasitic oscillations during transitions between on and off that result in a lot of heat dissipation and RFI, never put a resistor in series with the gate.  Always drive the gate with as low a source driver impedance that you can to quickly charge and discharge the gate capacitance to minimize the time that the transistor is operating in its linear region.

And what about the P-Channel?

"did i just hear him say bald engineer??" rewinds "he did D: "

How do I connect a relay to an FM radio output so that it can turn on a light when a strong signal is received?

Hi if you are king enough to help me determine what is the best substitute for CSD17556Q5B, the max power dissipation is 3.1watt for this. What should be most relevant, Is Max power dissipation matters a lot is it how hot the mosfet gets ?

The instructional part I was interested in this video was from 2:40 up to about 3:35.  The rest of the video probably was a guide for technical use of electronic hobbyists, practitioners or enthusiasts.   I would probably get there maybe in some future projects of mine but my interests on using MOSFETs would be far more in complex electronics purposes like how to use them with higher amp/voltage motor requirements or will they work on induction motors, etc.  Thanks anyway for this informative video.

How to calculate Power Dissipation mention on Datasheet of Mosfet i.e 150W?

version french ?

They drop less voltage (and dissipate less power) than a passive diode.

 @AddOhms  Can you explain why outside about 80° I was getting a .49 but then after it’s been inside the house in air conditioning it’s now only showing .15? How sensitive to ambient temperature are MOSFET?

No they, absolutely, are not.Voltage regulators may share the same package style, but so to sensors, one wire eeproms, and other active devices.

Series resistor is intentional. It is to limit current when turning on the FET and provide a path to discharge when turned off.  A resistor from gate to ground would function as a pull-down to hold the FET in a known state if the controlling signal, or I/O pin, goes high impedance.


I have no idea what "unload the gate's capacity" means.

Pull-down will quickly discharge load from gate's capacity, when your control signal is 0. MOSFET isn't like bipolar transistor and current isn't flow GS patch when it's turn on so you don't need limit current. Series resistor can limit current for bipolar transistor's control MOSFET transistor. This circuit won't work with few kilohertz control signal.

Adobe Illustrator and After Effects

Huh?

In the queue

I don't follow anything you stated. The gate is a capacitor. Depending on the type of FET, it could have a relatively high in-rush current which could damage some GPIO pins. In the case of high frequencies, say, higher than 10 KHz, then care needs to be taken because it builds an RC filter.

In depletion mode devices, drain-source is conductive when gate-source voltage is 0. Unlike enhancement-mode, they are normally "ON".

No. A gate resistor can (and usually does) reduce ringing and EMI emissions. Too high of a value causes the switching to slow down, resulting in unnecessary power dissipation.

What about it?

Yes. www.baldengineer.com.

You wouldn’t like how bad I speak French.

can you add Turkish subtitle ?

My welder stopped working when the Neutral was oxidized and voltage went up. I suspect mosfets to be the problem, How do i solve it.

This is cool, very good! Congratulations!!! Could you introduce us to a powerful H bridge circuit built with Mosfets?

@7:24 The symbol you shown is for an depletion mode MOSFET.  The enhancement mode MOSFET has broken lines from source to drain.

I'm always confused when people talk about things "drawing" current.  Things don't "draw" current; they "allow" current to pass thru.  The amount of current they allow to pass thru for a given voltage is determined by their internal resistance.

лучше бы русские субтитры добавил

came through here as I wanted to figure out how Quantum computing works - seems if you wanted to do this would be the goto component a logic-level MOSFET transistor

Now in spanish I speak a litle english

Excellent explanation, greetings from venezuela

Around 2.19 minutes you have drawn the wrong symbol for enhanced MOSFET. Should have a dotted line between drain and source otherwise good presentation.

I did not understand that line. "Two men enter into a bar....."

Okay... I've been watching videos on how to make 18650 battery packs and this video pops up as suggested.  I thought I would watch it and see what I could learn.  Waaayyy over my head. 😂

Please go into another subject and stop pissing people about

That was great, however would liked to have seen you build the application during the tutorial.   something simple.

"Hi I'm James, the BALD engineer" hahaha, I was not expecting that!

Great video! The symbol you showed for a enhancement mode MOSFET is wrong though. The line between D and S should be non-continuous. The one in the video is the sign for a depletion mode MOSFET.

That auto generated hand animation is extremely distracting

I'm still waiting for heat sink details

You did not even say what pin connects to what

95% of this you might as well been speaking mandarin but the illustrations helped a lot!

Sure. As soon as I learn Turkish.

In that case, you are in the extreme minority. A device presents a load which causes current to be drawn. It is common terminology used in electronics. For example, "current draw" electronics results in 2.9 million pages on Google. While "current allow" electronics only has about 11,000.

If I knew Russian, I would.

 @AddOhms  I wish you knew Russian . You have a very interesting channel and your videos are very entertaining . I wish you success and more subscribers !

Sorry, I only speak a little Spanish.

Yup. You are not first person over the years to notice that.

It is a very common way to start to a joke.

Great feedback. Although, you might want to read and consider following it yourself.

There is nothing "auto-generated" about it.

Nothing? You're telling me you used keyframe animation to animate all of those section where a hand is drawing the diagrams? Given that there programs that will do that for you it seems like a waste of time if that were the case.

I apologize if I came across as dismissive about the work that you put into your videos but none the less my honest opinion was that it was distracting enough that I stopped watching the video. Clearly other people had a different reaction so take it as you will.

Huh? I said which terminals on the schematic are the gate, drain, and source. The pin number of the actual package depends on which device you’re using. So YOU have to look at YOUR datasheet to determine that.

And if I apply logic to circuit resistors.  Then for this to work as a variable resistor.....   as the resistance goes up in this mosfet it will have to dissipate all of the heat as a resistor. So this is not a great variable resistor except at very low resistances like the .035 ohms or very high resistance so almost no current flows. 79 watts with a heat sink at 25 C is still very impressive for this device.

what's the fet is all about? a bit of moss?

Joke at the start is literally so dumb, I actually laughed

0:29 I asked my 6th grade science teacher about hydrogen peroxide once, and they told me this joke, I didn't understand it until now, 3 years later

what  to do if you cannot afford $60/month ?  Great software , too expensive.

I did not learn something new

Why wouldn't you just use a relay? Just curious. Or an opto-isolator. Teach me! I don't know the answer!

A great video. Very well explained. But I would'nt recommand taking the maximum temperature for calculating thermal dissipation. In my experience, the cooler you keep your transistors, the more reliable they will be. Never believe datasheets. I don't care about what professionnals are doing in commercial products. In my opinion, commercial products are not reliable enough. I'm tired to replace under rated components and to fix under cooled designs.

I believe the rds on should be renamed

Sometimes current flows from s to d

you lost me at " and this is how mosses work". I'm trying to expand my electrical knowledge but I'm not quite ready for this.

In the punchline he ordered "H2O, too" or "H2O2," which is hydrogen peroxide.  I had to go back and pause the joke, it flashes real fast. Good one.  xD

Wait a minute!  The description of difference in application of BJT vs MOSFET is fundamentally wrong.  True, in most very recent usage,  power devices are more often IGFETS, and small signal devices are more often JFETS or BJT's,  but this has only been the case for for the past couple of decades.  40 years ago, it was the other way around...

What about Boba fett

The Vthr is very confusing to newcomers, who think the device conducts above this voltage, when it doesn't - it starts to conduct a tiny current of few hundred microamps only at this voltage.  The Vgs quoted for Rds(on) is usually three times the Vthr or so, and this is the gate drive needed for full conduction, not Vthr.

Most non-logic-level MOSFETs have Vthr as "2 -- 4V", and these are never suitable for 5V gate drive, for instance.
Vthr is the turn-fully-off voltage, not the turn-fully-on voltage.  Also note the huge variability in threshold voltage - this
is inherent in MOSFET gate voltages, they all are highly variable, so you have to play safe and use the minimum
or maximum value as appropriate, not the "typical" values.

For instance the Rds(on) maximum value is the correct one to use for Rds(on), not the "typical" value.

Y'all I can't stop laughing at the  Moss bit. I've been watching so many electronics videos that now I'm fluent in Engineer humor. I'm in too deep. Help.

This is all Dutch to me. I'm just looking for a regulator for my motorcycle . And I don't believe it hast to cost me $200 to get there.

I’m so lost

Note this is very useless tutorial if you gonna try open transistor half way and so on. Either have it on or off. Without GS resistor its dooms day.

En Español por favor, o traducir en sub-titulo.

Mistake: 79W is derived from R_JC witch is 1.9 C/W and you can calculate it for every case temp. not only 25C.
by: (175-25)/1.9=~79C; or for every possible case temp T you can get:  (175-T)/1.9; so for T=-10C you can dissipate more than 79W.

Huh?

Congrats.

Strange quote to bring up, since I never said that.

With a $0 budget, I have zero plans to pay for translations. Edit: All of my videos allow someone from the community to submit translated subtitles.

Mistake: That is EXACTLY what I showed in the video.

More than a minute of time wasting including talking about moss blew your credibility.

Over 2.3 million views and over 34,000 likes disagrees with you. It's a joke. Lighten up and your life will be much better.

 @AddOhms  You offer a video called "MOSFETs and How To Use Them" and I opened it to learn something, so it's frustrating to wait through a long intro and an irrelevant "joke" before giving up on it. 2.3 million views shows people are interested in MOSFETS, but only 1.5% likes shows most people prefer presenters that deliver on what the title says and leave out the self-indulgent part.

