I studied Control Systems 5 years ago at University. The teacher was awful and the lectures were boring as hell. I still dont know how I managed to pass... Anyway, I found this video incredibly well explained: easy, clear and concise! I think that I have learnt more about the basics of Control System in these 14 minutes than I did in 3 months of lectures at University. Big thanks!!

Brian Douglas: the great explainer. The fact that this content is 100% free is one of the reasons why I think that the internet is the greatest invention of all the time.

Hey everyone, thanks for watching this video! If you have any questions or comments that you'd like me to see, please leave them under this comment so that I get notified and can respond.  Cheers!

It's so good see Brian here  MATLAB.. I miss his channel

Brian, it is now 3 years that I follow you on your videos, and alll are awesom

Fantastic. So we’ll done and presented!

This is like explanation of Kalman Filter basics. Great video!

wait, is this Brian Douglas

Perfect, simple, clear, without any fuzziness... thanks!

Just keep getting better.....this is great work Brian, thank you.

Awsome video, I was searching for this. It just answered all of my questions about state space models.

kudos.your explanation brought back a lot of memories on what i learnt some time past. thanks for the help.

This was amazing, thank you!

They did!
Good job!

Thanks Brian for sharing. Excellent and practical explanations. Keep the good work. Every work was chosen in the video and value for the time

Great Video and Explanation.

Thank you for the nice video! Very clear.

Brian the LEGEND Douglas at it again! Thank you so much for your tutorials Brian! They're INCREDIBLY helpful

This is a BRILLIANT overview/explanation - best I’ve seen. Thanks!

Very nice Brian, thanks a lot !!

So did I

😂😂Me too bruh

Do you ever use this at work?

I'm in that same boat right now--I'm not understanding what my prof is teaching but I still have to stay and attent nonetheless to be eligible to graduate. It's a waste of time when I know there are better sources. It's a very bad system if they hire professors who know their material well but are unable to teach efficiently.

this is literally half of your first lecture in that course, how is it equal to 3 months?

 @Lemar024  you'd be amazed how much more useful a single clear explanation can be, compared to months of unengaging lectures...

 @Lemar024  yeah, this is a good video for getting an intuitive understanding, but its  no where near comparable to a full lecture

Facts

Brian, can you do a video explaining observibility and controllability in the state space equations??

 @benallia8262  , I'm working on that video right now.  It'll be the 3rd in the series.  Although, it'll approach the concepts more than the equations.

Hello! Is there a course on mobile robot trajectory following? Specifically, pure pursuit algorithm. I'd love to see a proper explanation on this subject!

 @AnotherGamer21 ! I don't have any videos on the topic (but that's a good idea!).  Here's a Mathworks page that introduces the controller a bit. https://www.mathworks.com/help/robotics/ug/pure-pursuit-controller.html.

Sir, as you removed acceleration from the state variable, why should we take velocity alone as a state variable as it can also be determined by the derivative of position right?
Then why can't we use only one state variable
i.e. Position alone ????
As both velocity and acceleration can be determined from it right?

Hi Brian,
Thank you for the nice explanation. Just one follow up question
1. The velocity of the system is the derivate of position. So why eliminate it as a state variable using the same logic as the acceleration? In that case system will be defined by 1 state varaible

Amazing video thnx man

please hurry up brian i have an exam 3 month later. thank uuuuuuu

always loved your videos.keep recording on different topics.
please make videos on linear matrix inequality and its different methods,

YOU ARE WORKING FOR MATLAB NOW?? WOW!

State Space is tough;   When building a pump system,  Controller is a PID pump is unknown.  I need a way to identify this pump transfer function.  0 to 5 Vdc in.  Step the input and I guess monitor the output position as its linear function.  PID is used for a position, not velocity.  i could use an oscilloscope to measure about with a step input.   A step is at what freq.  How would I record and get this data back into Matlab?  Like your car transfer function.  I am thinking it would be a slight move in output.  Somehow I need to record this.  Any ideas?

You are best thing that has ever happened to control systems on YouTube! You've saved me in two separate classes now! Keep up the good work.

This is Brian! Was searching the same video on your channel. Thank you so much .

could you please teach us how to design state-space model for cars

do you work at mathworks??

It's so good see Brian here  MATLAB.. I miss his channel

Can you give an example the purpose of state space?

 @khosbayarerdenebileg4749  It's the mathematical basis of modern control theory

Hello, I have question. Is control theory Kalman filter? Yes/No

thanks！

Brian which tool do you use for illustrations?

I wanna ask about a question from my assignment. There's a basic RL circuit controlled DC motor system. First part of the question is to build a state space rep. of the system when the state variables are current i(t) of inductor and angular velocity w(t) of the shaft, which i have no problem with. But the second part is to a build state space rep. when the state variables are angular velocity w(t) and angular acceleration a(t) of the shaft, which i couldn't do. My lecturer said there's no problem choosing w(t) and a(t) as state variables since they are linearly independent. Thanks in advance.

Brian, do you happen to discuss somewhere about MIMO control systems with possible coupling in the plant dynamics?

hey Brian, thank you for the way of providing example oriented explaination. This is perfect for realizing the need and significance of state space model along with state variables.

I don’t subscribe to math channels often when im just trying to gain some more insight in a subject but this video was so well put together that I had to do it. Well done.

Brian much appreciated; thanks; great video

Hi Brian. May I  ask for a more clear explanation of repackaging in this video?

Woah, a video by Brian Douglas! I watched many of your control system videos weeks ago because I am taking control systems part I this semester. Your videos are immensely invaluable in helping me understand the problem and making me in love with the subject!

Hello sir,
Suppose we are using I/p convertor and control valve to control level of tank,

How would we show it closed loop transfer function

those videos you made are really amazing and helpful! thank you bro🥹

Can you make a detailed course on modern control theory

Sir, please explain me the difference between controller and compensator. Thank you in advance. And I really need to say that all your lectures are really awesome 👌😊

Sir, I have the A,B,C,D matrices of the state space model. I also have the input u(t). I do not have the state vector matrix x(t). I would like to determine the value of output y(t) as the same data type as u(t). Can you please give me the instructions for doing that in MATLAB? 

Thanks in advance for your help.

It is! I have been making some videos for the MATLAB channel for about 7 months now.  If you haven't seen them yet, I have series on PID control, practical control topics, drone simulation and control, and linearization.

 @BrianBDouglas  absolutely going to!

It was the same question that hit me when the video started. :D

his sound is familiar, hahah

Your presentations are so good!

Amazing video, nice to go back to the basics! Sometimes you forget what you’re actually working with 😅

Awesome video!!!

Thank you Brian. Very interesting

Amazing intuitive overview !! Thank you for your amazing videos, helped me grasp the true essence of classical control and now the modern ! A legend gotta say !

Hey Brian! Excellent work, you make everything look so easier and super intuitive

Thanks a lot for your lessons
I literally would be lost without them. please keep making great videos.

cristal clear explanation ! thanks

I like your cooperation with Mathworks.

Great explaination!

This is simply amazing!

Great video!

thank you because of your amazing videos ,i wish that all teachers like you

you are incredible man..   :)

These videos are amazing!

This is Awesome!!!!

Thank you brain for all of your videos the way you are explaining topics is very good...i wish the best for you

awesome lecture!

That Brian Douglas? I was sad he didn't have content on this topic and this was like an alternative option and now it's his voice wow

very intuitive

cool video！

Awesome! My lecturer had no interest in explaining the concepts, just how to solve the equations given all the parameters, so this is a perfect complement! Thank you!

Amazing.

Awesome ！

Thank you of the explanation! Really clear information to help visualize what is happen beyond numbers.

Very good

banger video

I've been trying to fully grasp the state-space model for a few days now and I only just understood everything I've been reading. Thanks so much for your explanation.

learned more in this video than in the first 10 lectures of my state variables class, thanks Brian Douglas

thanks brian ....

thanks
 Brain

bless you

thank you

hey, it is Brian Douglas!

listen by switching to 0.75x speed and save a life :)

Amazing explanation Brian! This video has helped me a lot to understand this topic better. Thank you for such content!

that's amazing, thanks from morocco to you

This video is truly an amazing lecture, although it is very brief and thoughtful. It is sad to see many hobbyists and some engineers building their models based on an extremely basic mathematical model u = kp*eP + ki*eI + kd*eD. However they  ignored the other influances such as external disturbances, internal disturbance, unpredictable PID gain changes, and system specifications as the system is operating in the Real World. Many of those systems screwed up because they did not account for those influances described by the Dynamic Matrix Control (DMC). Hobbyiests and engineers should learn (even a little) about state of system by exposing the variables on the DMC Matrix. This is why you find people launching model rocket and it ends up whirling in the air and crashing, or producing unstable or unpredictable results > because they did not account for variables that contribute to the system output. An example: you can not predict the flight of a space vehicle if you dont anticipate how every thing is influancing its travel in the space over time as things change, noise and disturbance and the state of the components operating the vehicle itself are changing. I think I have said enough.

Excellent video , thanks. Do you have any video about braking force in electric vehicles?, with state space equations, please.

thank you brian always  you got the top mark
I was wondering which software you use in the lecture ? I liked it

That's exactly what I was hoping for ☺ I think of these videos as complements to a traditional course just to provide a little foundation before jumping into the theory

me too I have to submit literally next week and this presentation was very helpful

Maybe it was review for some people who covered state space models in previous classes but I had no real idea of why we were putting the differential equation into matrix form and what X, Y, A, B, C, and D represented. I'm reviewing for an exam and decided to take a conceptual step back and it makes way more sense now.

YES

I listen my university teachers at 1.5x

 @muhammadqaisarali  me at 2.5 speed :))))

I have a lecturer 10/10 lad, he talks with so much clarity u can go 3.5x without having any problems

Glad it was helpful!

Glad you liked it!

The lecture is very helpful.
Can you show me what software you use to write and draw?

Thanks you!

Plz provide video for robust control techniques

better than what my prof can teach.

Brain hurty

This is good

Hi, Can you talk about Harmonic State Space Model with a simple example, Please.

Hi ! I was wondering how to formulate the state space matrices from differential equations when there is a white noise associated with one of the parameters. For eg:d x1/dt = V*x1+2* u where V= 8+ white noise with variance  .2 and u is input

<3

1:36  stability, more energy dissipation= more stable

zeroth!

Hi, how to identify the  state variables in the state space models' equations ; means to know that which state of the system is being represented by the variables?

May I know the software used for it ? To create  those sketches for describing video.

Watch a video of Brian Douglas it's like watch a movie of Will Smith, you know it will be awesome

Congret ! Brain

заебись лекция

Thanks for this video. I'm getting my ass kicked and appreciate this video, a LOT.

How are the two equations derived?

If you differentiate the position value, you get velocity.
Then we can express it in a first-order way, not in a second-order way?

What do you mean by the term “modal” ?

you say that the reason why we can use differential equations is because  the way the system is changing depends upon the current state
but how could it be different? 
what would a system that cannot be represented by differential equations even look like? 
I always assume differential equations are a property of nature itself, but is it? Or is just a way that is convenient for us?

Glad you find it useful.

Thanks!

Thanks!

The idea is that you reduce second derivatives to first derivatives of the first derivative. This couples the second derivative with the first as a system of two linear equations dependant on the position and its first derivative.
For some systems you literally say the first derivative of x equals the first derivative of x.

I love the style It is a great job. Thank you. And how to make a video in this style?

Brain?

Hi MATLAB

I literally cry every time I watch one of your videos. I'm a researcher and there are so many things I needed to understand to get stuff done. I always felt overwhelmed by the task. But no more.
Really! Thank you....

Am building a model rocket with gimbal control. What should I do?

can't even get a single word

Brian, you are bad to the bone...   All your videos show different views and insights.  Any chance you could make a video on MIMO systems no one can cover this correctly special in state-space form.   Let's say we have  Pressure and Temperature coming in one output representing this equation then one wants to see the Pressure and Temperature as single units on the output as well.   2 in x  3 out.

OMG, it's MATLAB! we're saved!

p for position? 💀

please i want to know what is the name of that program ,that you are using in writing ,and how can i find it

my prof is trash

TOO FAST !!

I didn't understand shit 😊

awesome lesson Brian!

Thank you

like literally crying? seriously?

same man

Yes, @BrianBDouglas saves us when he steps in with explaining difficult concepts.

 @MATLAB  Thank you guys!!🥰those videos are really helpful!!

😂

I describe my set up here: https://engineeringmedia.com/my-setup

