Great first steps in bringing BF angle mode up to snuff!  There is TONS of great things in Emuflight that we worked on and tested 1,000's of flights on that would improve it even more, reduce gimbal lock when reaching 90 degrees and smoothing out the whole angle system to give angle pilots tunable control and push the limits.  Let's hope more advancements happen, but very happy to see Chris add some Angle Passion back to BF!

We are so lucky to have smart people like Chris in our hobby 🙌 great work Chris I’m going to give this a try.

Mad props to Silver13 who first implemented all this over a decade ago in silverware and passed the knowledge and working example along for the rest of us to use in projects like quicksilver and betaflight.  Great job getting BF up to speed!

Beat a flight sometimes you want to yaw left to look to the left but you want to continue flying in the same direction .

Thank you Chris for what you do. FPV may be a small audience but you sir are very awesome. Thank you for helping us improve the world of FPV.
Thank you

Never thought I'd see fuzzy logic applied in my favorite hobby

Chris, this is awesome! Can't wait to give it a try, though I haven't flown angle mode in quite awhile. Hopefully this makes flying whoops in the house fun again, or at least a lot more fun!

Someone really analyze something and is smart enough to change it :) GOOD JOB

hi,
every time I click the assets in github I get the message "Failed to generate URL to download artifact."I would appreciate any help.

This is really  brilliant. Thank you, Chris

Thank you for your genius idea, uncle temperatur 😍👍🏻

Danku veel beter 🥳

I’ve only had my meteor 75 for just over a week and I’m whizzing it around the house on angle mode. Tried acro and I can do a lap without crashing BUT I have to go easy… once it starts to run away I lose it… so I was looking to see if there was an in between mode.. (horizon) which led me to this video. 
It’s great to see somebody with a very logic based way of thinking explaining this. I know EXACTLY what you mean when describing the drift when making a yaw turn. Adding this built in correcting sounds great (if wanting the thing to fly on rails) but I’ve come from years in fixed wing and I’m well used to coordinating turns… even in the opposite (wrong) direction with gliders to keep the wings level etc. So personally, I actually really enjoy how angle mode drifts and I already learned how to either use that to my advantage or correct it. It’s good to know though what’s actually determining this behaviour now rather than it just being ‘the way it is’.

It's been a while. Good video as always 👍

This is excellent, Chris!

Thanks Chris, this will help newbie and tinywhoop a lot.

Next betaflight will have a new mode:
Acro, angle, horizon and Rosser mode! This looks so cool. I'm very interested in seeing how these changes would affect "level race mode"

Is there an update to this? When I go into the 'Do you want to test this build' comment, the 'assets' link no longer works :😟 In addition, any ETA on when this will actually be in the standard build? Thanks Again.. great video! )👍👍

This was awesome Chris, I can't wait until this is included in the release.

Since rescue mode uses angle mode this will help there too!

we are so lucky that there are no good manuals and autotuning features for FC that the aerospace engineer has to  waste his on troubleshooting and explaining to us what to do.

 @OlegShtyrev  if you need a manual then maybe a dji phantom is a perfect fit for you lol

You're going to enjoy it, it is awesome!

this opinion is so disrespectfull to all those who developed BF before Chriss appears...

 @mikenomatter  disrespectful??? 🤦‍♂️

 @mikenomatter  He said LIKE Chris, not ONLY Chris.

​@Mike Nomatter  In that case: Thank you, God, for the air we fly in!

Yep, bf has been behind the curve on this for a good while, good to see them getting up to speed.

Fantastic, Chris! Amazing work!!

Like Always, the best explaining of PID Loops and the internals of an FC. 👍

Great new feature. Thank you so much.

Man... the amount of value and improvement you bring to this hobby is just amazing. First you fixed frames and tuning for us... and now that angle mode! When I learned FPV, I quickly moved away from angle mode to Acro with my Tinyhawk... it just didn't feel well. You explained quite well why! This is gonna be an interesting change!

Great work Chris!

Nice explanation 
Thanx

holy whoop batman - I didn't realize this! I've been flying the baby nano 20  and was trying angled for the first time since I learned how to fly.. I abandoned it cause I thought I just got too good for it. lol Thanks Chris for letting me know it was betaflight and not me flying brilliant. lol

awesome change in angle mode Chris! this will be awesome for cinewhoops!

Such a great video! Thank you Chris!

Nice.  cool stuff to consider.  bookmarked.

I'm visiting Bangkok and flew a 80mm quad with a Vista off a rooftop restaurant. I used angle mode because I wasn't too familiar with the fairly small area and it made my landing more controllable (no inadvertent drifting over the rooftop ledge..)
Technically my wife was spotting but not reliably after a few glasses of wine 😄
So there are some benefits to angle mode but you have to fly it completely different to get proper cinematic footage.

Thanks another awesome video, I can't wait to try this .

Gr8 video, didn't ever think about angle VS acro mode being so different in terms of fundamental axes controls, particularly pitch/roll VS yaw in angle mode 💪👍

This is great! Thanks Chris!

Okay, freeze frame at 1:50 -- I know we're talking about angle mode and all but HOLY BEJEEZUS I've never seen a quad tuned so well! The stops on those snaps are like punching a brick wall.

Always appreciate your content. Thank you!

Awesome! I only use angle for take off in small areas

Thank you so much for this Chris, this is exactly what I've been wanting the quad to feel like in angle mode! It is so much easier to fly now, so much faster as well. What a huge difference!

Thanks for this info, updated my Holybro Kopis 2.5 whoop and it is much more responsive in angle now, had to adjust my rates a little but flies much better now 👍

You are the man - thank you for your work!

Rosser or Thompson?? lol. How about both!

Reminds me of the old rate gyros vs heading hold. I believe the issue then was the wind up of the loop that happened the longer you held the stick. Feed forward sounds like some extra gain on the stick authority that happens depending on the rate of initial stick change and again rate that it slows.

Tested it today, and I must say that Im very impressed. Its compleatly new mode... Its finaly usable as it should be

I’m not yet flying but I thought that this slower response was the whole purpose of angle mode. I’m going to watch this, though, because you’ve got a great way of explaining things!

Dayum, the responsiveness in angle mode went through the roof! Thank you so much!
Need to tune my Mob6 again with BF4.4, but I'll manage that somehow I guess.

For racing with this it seems like you should put yaw on the right stick and only use that for turns.

'dump all' / 'diff all' are better for a config backup than just 'dump' / 'diff' as the 'all' backs up every profile not just the active one.

This is awesome !!! Many Thanks!

This feature would be nice for RTH and also for position hold.

Thank you Chris!
As a almost daily fpv quad flyer for 10 years, I’m so satisfied/grateful with base/clean/Betaflight’s focused on 5 inch Rate/Acro mode all these years, as decent whoops only appear in the last 4 years…..And after 40+ years in this wonderful world of Land/air/sea R/C……the weakest link is still the Pilot…..get out and fly😎

Seems very worthy update for home whooping :) Will try when it will get released in official release.

thank you for sharing

I only use angle mode on a temp switch on the right. If I ever get in a bind I can hit the switch and it levels out perfect.

Woow! Thanks!

Thanks for all of the great content Chris! I tried getting this to work but it failed.  I was able to upload what look like BF 4.5 and tried reinstalling my profile and things were a mess.  I too knew to this to really troubleshoot. I re-flashed it to 4.4 and installed my profile and now back in business. I may give it another poke in a few days.

I see a little bit of bobble at the end of those snap moves 😭

Okay, so I installed 4.4, and I gotta say, it is indeed all that 'n' a bag o' crisps.  Chris, my Man, you are indeed of Merlin-grade wizard stock.  Angle Mode is at least a couple of orders of magnitude better now.  I can do things with ease that took some effort before.  And this after only flying a handful of packs so far.  The switch was easy as cake, with no issues on either upgrade.  Thanks much, Good Sir.  Once again you've helped majik my little dudes into something wonderful.

I gave it a try today, and I definitely like the improvement! I am able to fly into tighter gaps at home. Thanks for the great work, Chris!

I can't see this new parameters in the final 4.4. Do you have any information about when it's going to be part of the final version?

Analytics!

Brilliant!

Hi, what FC youre using, haven't tried it yet, my Fc is betafpv F411 1s 12A aio, and my current Firmware is BF 4.3.0 will i able to flash this in my current Firmware?

Will these improvements be applied to Horizon mode as well?

Hey Chris, crackin video! Great explanations and solutions. Never even thoughts about these angle mode handling issues, just thought it’s angle mode… but these improvements are great, I gotta setup my tiny quad like this. Thanks for the video, Cheers!

I usually only fly acro in non windy conditions.  So I mostly fly angle mode and have put up with the lack of responsiveness.  The wobble explanation is pure gold and I never really understood why I got wobble in all my angle mode flying until viewing your details today on error's between the two co-ordinate systems.  I hope enhanced/updated BF angle mode can make it to official BF release soon.  Going to try this release on an F4 based whoop that I only fly indoors.  Subbed!

Also, thank you for explaining feed forward! I started flying in 2019 and got really interested in the technical side of things thanks to people like Joshua Bardwell. But NO ONE (no offense, UAV Tech :) could really explain the basics of tuning. They all tend to gloss over the most important concepts. In a matter of seconds, you just perfectly explained something that others have struggled to do.

As of late I have been trying to tune those exact things out of my TinyHawk2! Hope this works!

It’s like cinimode and racemode on DJI. Ha

Great work! The only sad thing is that it won't be shipped in 4.4 :)

I have several different frames of your design.
I just did a comparison video of the 3.5 V2 and the 03 quite oblivious to the DJI 03 accomodation.
I have another video about the colored carbon. I see the 03 UL5 is now a longer fuselage. I really like the UL5 with tight bracing.

i fixed my angle mode whooping a while ago, i put it in acro mode lol! i only ever use angle mode when im flying LOS while walking back from where ever i crashed lol

Tested on a DIY 2" whoop, flying inside.
STM32F411 on a Happymodel ELRS X1 AIO 2-4S (CRAZYBEEF4SX1280). Caddx Vista, so a bit heavy at 78 g without battery & the motors are too small; 1202 8420KV's.
The only initial problem was the same as noted on comments in Github: ELRS was lost at first.
In CLI, "get express" - the AU domain after flashing is probably wrong and needs to be set again. Diff did not fix this, had to be manually changed.
Tested with the defaults (angle_feedforward = 50 and angle_earth_ref = 100).
Very nice behavior.
Finally this whoop runs OK in Angle mode. Was able to hit smaller gaps and fly much faster than with the regular 4.4.4 RC3 it had before this.
Rapid turns in tight spaces feel much better. Will test with different values later.

I really hope this gets into 4.4.0?

Going to have to give this a go.  I think the FF update will help dial in my whoop racing laps.  Main issue I have though is flying micro whoops in angle mode and I bump into something, BF freaks out and tries to fly off in the opposite direction.

I sold my 'proper' favs (protek 35 & Cinelog 25) because of the hassle of the way they flew in angle, bought the avata and its just as bad at times, but without the ability to configure. Thinking I'll be buying the Cinelog 20 soon

But when will it make official release 4.5 or later? (To late for 4.4 I guess)

Flirting with Avata pilots 🤔😆

How about Horizon mode 🤔😉 thank you for all the help.

Interesting content, thank you for sharing 👍
Does this update also reduce the gimbal lock problem (which occures in angle-mode, when the pitch angle is 90 deg)?
I wonder, if there is a flight mode built with quaternions (where there is never a gimbal lock possible).

Hey Chris, I stumbled across this video for angle mode, searching for something different, and it's incredible insight into this mode! Great work! I learned a lot here, except I'm currently struggling with one aspect of the angle mode for cinewhoop filming. Everything is flying really slow and smooth in angle mode with the added ff feature but I have tried many setting changes to keep my throttle from bobbing up and down including the reference from your video pertaining to the throttle curve and expo. No matter what I do, I still have a slight movement up and down and can't seem to relax the throttle. It really comes through on the naked go pro footage as the horizon of an indoor atmosphere is moving up and down even after stabilization.  Are there any extra tips you have that I can mess around with to get the perfect flight feel. Thanks in advance and for all you do for our hobby!

You are a genius!😃 Great work! We need you for more Tinywhoop stuff Chris! Motor testing and others.. I would pay for it. Eg in the form of a gofundme project where we could support you so that you can do more tiny whoop stuff😃would you do it?

I run angle mode mostly as acro flips gives me motion sickness and ruins the hobby for me so I just race around in angle doing fast smooth lines. I notice angle mode the faster you get the less predictable it gets so the racers would really like these new settings .I also noticed angle mode is just that it needs to be at an angle to work properly too flat and its kinda crap so hopefully this helps with that aswell

Thanks for a very informative video. And also a little trip down memory lane, to the days when I was part of a team developing a scripted VR system. Made lots of coordinate transformations back then!

One thing I wonder now and would be great if you could pin a comment stating if this was included in the 4.4 release or not. Now when 4.4 is released.

Cool, finally betaflight is getting what Quicksilver has had all along.

Its great, but for me the biggest problem in angle mode is angle drift over time and after hitting gates, we need to rearm again to recalibrate angle.

The question I have is, can we put that yaw code on acro mode. It would be awesome to have lazy inverted yaw spins.

Mmmmkay.  I stopped this a minute in to say this should be good.  I fly Angle exclusively, and I have my BF 4.3.2 rigs tuned to what I consider nigh-on perfect.  I can't wait to see what else I can learn from Mister Wizard here.  Teach me, my Sensei. . . your pupil abides.

I just thought this was part of angle mode lol I always was of the belief that acro or air mode is just in itself more precise my it’s nature. This is way more scientific ha good stuff!!!

I appreciate the explanation and work that went into this, but I can not imagine ever flying anything other than acro - I've been flying micros indoors for the past 4 years.

With this I lose some gps rescue features, this firmware does not include that.

It will be interesting to see how beta flights whoop Code stands against emuflight. With Dual Axis Steering they have other nice things done to the angel mode

Great! But what will happen, when the 4.4 is released? You will still have an option to download an automated build from this pull request with 4.4 and upcoming final releases?

Hello Chris! Thank you for your work! This is very interest improvment.
I try to tune angle mode on my tiny whoop in BF 4.5 RC2 to follow your manuals in PR.
I understand not full, how can i tune feedforward smoothing.
Please, can you provide some screen shot from BlackBox explorer with good step response
angle debug parameters. That will be very helpfull.

This is brilliant, going to try this!  How does this compare with the mockingbird project work?  Very interesting!

I never fly with Angle or Horizon and especially without ff!

Looks promising, but I'm going to wait until 4.4 comes out as a proper release.  All the issues Chris mentioned I seem to have well in hand, as my rigs already behave with alacrity and precision.  I can wait, but I am keen to see what's next in 4.4. . .

I don't think I would have got into fpv if it wasn't for the slow responsive angle mode. Now I rarely use angle mode and always fly Acro 




Acro but it was a beginning for me little over a year ago.......

got wife pickup duty

Hello,does it work in horizon mode also ?........asking for a friend

I almost never use Angle/Horizon mode anymore even when flying inside but I found that Horizon mode and reducing the Horizon Strength gave me much better response.  I've also played with Horizon Transition.  I will certainly try this new setup to see if it's worth going back to self-leveling.

Hello... no more links to assets! Please can you back it to working ❤

This is awesome. Were the root causes (lack of feed forward, and yaw/roll using different control mechanisms) of these issues known ... or did you discover these through experimentation?  Great job.

I don’t want to sound like I know what I’m talking about but I thought I would post this comment / question.  I have not looked at the Betaflight code and my experience with digital filters is primitive at best.  But…

It seems like you are reinventing digital filters.  And it seems like since a drone is physically not attached to anything else, it should be possible to get the precise mechanical response characteristics for the particular drone by inputting sin waves at various frequencies into the system to get the drone’s frequency response curve.  Then use that curve to create a matching digital filter which will optimize (at least in theory), the responsiveness of that particular drone.

The idea would be to first get the drone to hover.  Then wobble it at different frequencies on the three axes to get the response curve for each axes.  Then compute the optimum digital filter for the drone for each axes.

turn on crash recovery

 @knightdeluxegaming  it doesn't help with angle drift.

Yup, horizon mode loosened up ftw

I fly my cinewhoop indoors with angle strength at 10: it flies smooth, precise and awesome

I "discovered" the issue or at least was the first to do work to improve the poor angle mode performance.

Hi thanks for the video, but I can't find the assets anymore, in the link, I'am using betaflight F41s12A aio

Very interesting and informative video. I still fly angle mode on whoops indoors. This looks like it will be very helpful. My favorite whoop to fly was the Alienwhoop Zero running NotFastEnuf Silverware. It was a ripper. 😎

Can't seem to find a working assets link anymore...

This sounds great. Which version of Betaflight will this be in? I don't see it in the release notes for 4.3, thanks.

Fascinating stuff indeed! Thanks, Chris! 😃
Do you have any idea if it's going to be added to Betaflight 4.4?
Stay safe there with your family! 🖖😊

Thanks to you Chris, this feature is already incorporated in Betaflight 4.5. However, I have a query. When I tested the angle mode in Betaflight 4.5, it performed amazingly well, especially with the ease of turns with only yaw inputs given. How can I achieve the same "integrated roll" behavior in the acro mode? I couldn't find any setting options for this. When I attempted a brief flight in acro trainer mode and tried a turn using only yaw inputs, the craft seemed to lose its orientation. It converted the forward pitch into roll, which is indeed the core issue you described in the beginning of this video.

betaflight showing video transmitter current values device ready says false....what to do? Please help....

I might be wrong but Emuflight has both Feedforward and DAS (dual a is steering) for a while now. Are these the same things you mention in this video?

Kan de files niet downloaden
Help

Acro forever!

Keeping yaw rotation around the earth’s vertical/z-axis (rather than the quad’s) is something that silverware has been doing for years. Imo that was the huge draw of NFE Silverware’s angle mode for brushed builds back in the day, and remains one of the main draws of modern day quicksilver.

Here’s hoping BF crash recovery and the gyro wind-up issue (not sure that’s the right term, but the thing where it doesn’t fly straight for a few seconds after hard crashes) are improved as well. Quicksilver still handles clipped gates/obstacles better than BF in whoops, imo.

Which hex file for happy Model mubular seven? I want to try it

What is the green quad?

"asset" link is dead for me . Anyway thanks a lor for your knowledge

Do you think it could mess up GPS Rescue if it's set to initiate

I have been using your v4.0 file on my 4" LR and have been very happy with the improvement in the way it flies in angle mode, I am about to replace the Vista on this quad with the DJI 03 air unit and would like to update to Betaflight 4.4 to get the latest OSD improvements, can I do this in a way without losing the angle mode improvements ?

Is this updated in the new version of BF 4.5?

I fly tinywhoops in acro, so it doesn't really help me. Good idea, though.

Too bad it wasnt possible to just copy how like Hover and Auto-level works on Ardupilot, in Normal/Fim mode and Sport Mode, then have the Acro mode from Betaflight. But I'm assuming that its not that simple, but you know what i mean lol. Ardupilot is super stable and is almost like a DJI drone with gps and all the sensors. But deff doesn't haven't that BF Acro mode, but it does have a good manual mode on it if youre able to fly it like that, but it's really not that type of quad anyway.. 
Awesome work man, it's greatly appreciated!! I'm trying to learn Acro mode on my first true fpv quad, but im starting with angle mode and I'm having trouble with that lol and i know how to fly drones i dont get it, gotta keep practicing my hovering and maneuvering in Acro Trainer mode when i can. But for just normal flight, Angle mode is just killing my drone lol. 
Plus i tend to start doing a loop of trying to land, but going higher and higher each time, bc its so sensitive and i was applying too much throttle apparently, you're instinct is to give it some throttle,  when the drone is coming back down, so it doesn't just crash down. But it goes up slightly or levels out near the ground so you can gently lower, but even little increments or so i thought were giving it  too much throttle lol.. 
Plus i wish the RTH worked properly. Plus with the GPS data you could add Air Brakes, Hover, etc so you're able to start flying even harder drones on say a film or beginner mode. Like you can do on Ardupilot or similar..

So if i have 4.4 i have this already? Before a watch the video. Acro snapping because the roll and pitch rate u enter. Make it 100 and it's slow to roll.  
I usually up my angle mode to 80 strength and max angle 80 or max angle quad can do before falling out the sky at full throttle.
After watching. So this adds feedforward and more p to get rid of delay

Silverware is amazing. I have a brushed whoop running it, so smooth. Only my Mobula 6 has better handling

Just create an account

link is no longer any good.. any suggestions?

Hello, this test no longer works today?, how can this be achieved today?, thanks

Should we expect this in 4.5?

I cant find the file

Link assets is not working, any idea?

Thanks Chris, I'm a bit late to the party on this great idea. Iv'e just tried this update on my mob6, it update fine, loaded the correct assets, when it tries to take off, it yaw spins and stops.... what have I missed or how to I get back to the original assets please. Thanks in advance. EDIT - the motors reversed tab needed clicking on... school boy error.....

Not sure if the files are removed they arent available

I'm trying to bind my elrs spi rx to a module on 3.2 but I can't with this version of 4.4 but I can bind with the official version of 4.4, does this version have the same elrs 3. ?

By flying a lot of autolevel indoors, my fingers learned to make coordinated turns. I don't know how I do it but watching old recorded videos clearly show that my quad is making coordinated turns (but these coordinated turns are not as clean as in acro mode). https://youtu.be/D1SVK6OkG8Q

Does the Aos5 v2 fit the o3 camera? Wanna buy one if it does!

Hey Chris i am trying to flash my F722 board but i dont know what hex i should use.
Is it the F7X2 hex file?

Is this usable for 5inch?😊

no more files i see, all closed up. Got a mobula 8 on 4.4.2 and Angle mode is rubbish. Acro is amazing. Any suggestions except wait for 4.5?

Isn't what betaflight put in pretty much identical to the Emuflight angle code that's been around for over a year? A lot of things sound the same to me. In my opinion, angle mode is a very useful mode and is now very underestimated by new pilots. I know one reason is that people would rather commit to one flight mode for all quads. I can understand that, but especially with a micro whoop which flies significantly different to larger copters, I think you can also fly with different flight modes. Especially in whoop racing, angle racing makes progress very quickly. Of course, the skill cap of acro is higher, however it requires a lot of time and practice on the small whoops on tide tracks. Racing at a high level in angle is still hard enough and not easy. So try it!  I also use angle on my cinewhoops in many situations.

Will this code be integrated in BF4.4?

So now that 10.9 is no longer in beta, does that mean I don't have to download the nightly  Hex File anymore? (What I'm asking if it's now built into betaflight 10.9 full release?)

Your audio sync is out. At least at the start that I've watched. Clap your hands or something so that you can align the sound spike with the frame in the video clip👍

Tried flashing and it said "Firmware image contains addresses not found on target device" what did I do wrong?

Do you think this would be beneficial for 3.5" Cinewhoops and those few times I use angle mode for small spaces?

first time I have tried something like this and wouldnt you know it ......I bricked it lol! Was great up until I did the diff update and thats when all hell went to hell lol!!!!!

Yes, should be in there.

Just create an account

btw: Isn't feedforward active in angle mode since 4.3?

Not sure. Make sure the hex is correct for the chip (F405, F722 etc.)

 @ChrisRosser  Its a happymodel diamond f4 so it should be an f405 right?

Should make a big improvement!

Chris, this is awesome!! Now, how will this feed into Horizon mode? Will the angle part of it fully benefit from the improvements?

Oddly KISS is the opposite

Now the BF devs just need to get off the idea of forcing our existing Acro rates onto Angle mode in BF 4.5... Angle needs it´s own rate adjustment/expo option ! Lots of people already use the current 3 rate adjustments elsewhere.

Chris! I'm having a hard time finding the cause of my quad's twitching problem, can you help?
Video:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HadMNNDLi5k
Flight time with problem:
02:11
02:46

Will it be officially released on BF 4.4?

What causes whoops to turn right or left on a hard turn? I have a brushed and brushless quad that does it. Always figured it was due to the frame bending but not 100% sure

This link is no longer available for download. Is there a newer version?

The "Assets" link no longer works. And loading the GA 4.4 release doesn't have the options. Any idea how to get the new stuff now?

Interesting. So rotation rate in angle and horizon don't actually do anything?

hi buddy. used to watch you years ago with pid tuning. got back into fpv now and want to do indoor flying. would you say angle mode is more suited that acro for indoors? i just find acro more natural and angle very odd feeling when trying to do tight turns indoors

I've just discovered this video and this looks like exactly what I need to achieve smoother flying indoors. Unfortunately the assets in PR #12067 are no longer available. How do I get this code onto my Cinebot 30? I'm currently running firmware 4.3.1 BTFL. Please help...

its bata not beeeetaaa

Hi Chris, sorry for the dumb question but I'm getting a "Failed to generate URL to download artifact." error when I click on the "Assets" link. Do you have a suggestion ?

I do fully buy into the first part with FF on Angle mode. For the second part it does not sound good to me as a 95% acro pilot. Up to now when flying whoops inside with angle, I had a similar stick yaw/roll coordination. For me that makes both modes really compatible for the pilot. Should we really have yaw/roll coordination done by the FC? (no, did not try it out)

I don't know what the code does, but always assumed that setting the camera angle took care of this.

Wonder why you persist in labeling your intros as “waisting time”?

I just waste 15 min of my life. Website dont contain the assets. Big FAIL. Dead project.

Good for you for giving angle mode some love. Too many acro snobs!

this is great!

Another good video and explanation for sure! 👌
But to be honest - who cares about angle mode? A good pilot is always flying Acro. Even whoops...

I was wondering that myself

I doubt this, looking at the Pull-request Chris recommends it is targeted to merge to BF 4.5

This is caused by yaw washout. You can try bumping up yaw gains a bit or running props out.  It's something low authority things deal with when pushed hard or flown in prop wash

These changes have now been merged so the latest BF release has them

Nevermind. Didn't realize you had to be logged in. Would help if their error message said that rather than page not found,....

Rates don't do anything in angle mode except yaw rate.

I always fly angle mode indoors, I think it's quite normal to fly angle inside and acro outside.

 @ChrisRosser  ye i agree angle is the only way indoors in tight spaces. I need more practice indoors for sure

I've just updated to BF 4.5.0 and wow, what a difference. This has literally changed everything for me. I can fly my Cinebot 30 in Angle mode with great precision indoors. Thank you so, so much Chris. I think you have just kickstarted the FPV side of my business.

Yaw and roll coordination was already done in the fc in angle mode, now it's just being done better

Already merged into BF 4.5 so successful project!

@MrSmith FPV  As a bad pilot I care about angle mode.

 @AlfieDoug  it's good to have options man. Especially for beginners

Some Whoop racers are starting to move to acro, but most still fly angle.

A good pilot flies the mode he/she likes if you ask me…

👍🏻👍🏻

Why are you recommending using ctzsnooze's PR # 12067 and not your own (PR # 12081)?

You a magican!!!! Crazybee F4SX1280 ELRS - flies now realy fantastic!!!

Hi, what version of ELRS you are using, I tried flashing this mod, after that, radio controller won't bind with the FC

