Who is watching this in 2025? 🔊

You could see my tweeters vibrating hard when Linus started talking

Linus looks adorable when he's suffering in torment

lol Fractal Design has no chill

Fractal Design: "We'll give you 200$ if you eat a ghost pepper"
Linus:"Are you sure? Maybe I can just show off one of your products?"
FD:"No no, this is for us."

speaking of cruel sponsors x'D

Who watching this 2025??😮

Fractal Design just won a bunch of cool points for this. Instead of advertising their latest, greatest piece of hardware they have Linus partake in a pepper challenge. Haha, awesome.

lol linus transformed to red ranger

As a company, I actually think more highly of Fractal Design after watching this video.

Holy shit. Ghost pepper. That's just mean. lol

Who is watching this in 2024

OUCH! My headphones are really loud and that bird tweet OUCH

You only need tweeters to hear Linus 😆

I feel bad, but I was laughing  as soon as it hit, and I'll be honest. I'm considering a fractal case for my computer. :P

Best sponsor clip I have seen from Linus so far, even better than the one he did with Luke about Dollar Shave Club. What a great way to end a year with an awesome tech video. Rock on Linus.

Dat ending hahahaha

My bass was turned up pretty high when he mentioned subwoofers at 2:47, and it surprised me with the bass.

You deserve 5 million likes for that lol poor linus

2:51 Wow, what a pleasing sound, I could listen to that all day

not me

Me

Me

Me

Not me

🤣🤣🤣

It's like he recorded in 24 FPS and converted to 25 FPS PAL.

 @android584  No understood that one I guess.

Lmfao

My voice is kinda the opposite

i am so gonna buy a Fractal Design case after this

 @chee1989  same... even if 3 years later, they are not as popular...

Oh, he so 'dorable, I wanna keep him, can I keep him mommy?

Oh yeah, so adorable with his hickups xP

I was just gonna say that. That was so cute. Lmao 

I laughed.

kirin idk about u,but im actually planning to buy one because its dirt cheap and super sexy

Kinda mean but true...

Adorable wasn't quite the word I had in mind...until I saw someone else use it and it worked. At least I didn't say it.

that was what i was thinking!

666 Illuminati confirmed

bambeast27's Tutorials Now it will be 667

Tottaly, first add that actually made me visit the page, see how awesome the product is, notice the price and put it on my "Wish that will probably never come true" list.

Indeed

The Dominion Network how to get PJ's attention? MAKE SOMEONE SUFFER

SamNubVids There should really be a, "no homo" after that........ just sayin

B-rad u meen no bdsm

+B-rad shhh bby

Sam Nub 😂😂😂😂

You can even see his face turn red when he ate the ghost pepper.

HE DOES idk why but he just kina does....

hes a cute nerd that is smart

yup, i bet He would look deadly cute if he would die.

Absolutely

SamNubVids

SamNubVids I hated seeing thay

But they got chill-i!! Ok I'm done.

literally but not lol

No cruel fans

Me lol

I am

😂

Its weird because I never heard him say "ITS MORPHIN TIME!"

EnlightenedAce
He probably wanted to say "ITS MORPHINE TIME!"

I hope someone reminded him to drink lots of milk instead of water after that...

Well, if they gave him a ginger challenge, then he'd have to eat himself...

Jacob S 
Alcohol doesn't work, the only thing to work is dairy, proven by mythbusters..

Trust me, eat a single Carolina Reaper and a ghost pepper won't be (that) bad anymore.

Ryan Winklevoss  he isn't old enough to realize that quality meat doesn't have to be burned in order to be safe.

entrepid83 You don't want to drink the milk you wanna spit it out... if you drink it, it wont help much. Talking from  experience...

Linus should definitely try the Carolina reaper next. comon fractal Josh you know you want to.

MrThaiax i don't know what you're talking about, i use Pepper Spray like butter.
/sarcasm.

jason200912
In other words ruined?

jason200912 You could eat very high quality beef completely raw. I still wouldn't advise it though.

Stratovarios100 Either one works, but strong alcohol works better than milk to soothe it, although depending on who you are you might be limited on how much you can drink of that.

Wizborg Alcohol dissolves capsaican, the fat's in the milk just absorb it, beer isn't very alcoholic, stronger alcohol, not mixed would work best.

I like ghost peppers... one of them makes a nice big pot of chili really spicy... :D

MrThaiax A guy I work with grows them. I about murdered for sneaking some that he dried and ran through a coffee grinder into my lunch

Just to put in perspective what I wrote earlier, the scoville scale (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scoville_scale) shows how spicy chillis are, the ghost pepper (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhut_Jolokia) is rated at around 1 million scoville units. The carolina reaper I and others have mentioned, is rated at 2,2 million scoville units.

Sean Mathiesen what kind?  I like my steaks well-done or medium-well

Ryan Winklevoss we'll see who's ruined when you live 20 years less than me hahahaha

jason200912
Uh what? I've tried my best... But i cannot find the logic anywhere.

k powren Agreed. Anywho? Most studies will show that well done meat doesn't reduce any health risks much... it's more about volume. So instead? Just enjoy a good steak every once in a while, not all the time kind of thing. I'm a medium-rare kind of guy... but the best steak I've ever had? Cooked rare, Aspen Ridge farms 12oz Angus Rib Eye at the Hyatt Regency's Mosaic Grille in Vancouver, BC, Canada. WOW, now that is good meat. :)

Here's a study as an example of what I mean about eating well done isn't much healthier than rare... it's all about quantity:
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/life/health-and-fitness/ask-a-health-expert/medium-rare-or-well-done-which-kind-of-meat-is-healthier/article13040626/

Trying to drink milk out of a bag (like canadians do) would have been really unfortunate in that case.

we don't drink milk out of bags, that's only Toronto, I think

its amazing to what him slowly turn red when he ate the ghost peper.

Yo 👋

2025 👍

Who’s watching in 2025

Me

Meedee

Me!

Me here

I got 30 seconds in and I hate it. I can’t stand this guys voice

Meeee

Me 😂

2025😂

2025 now

2025 🤪

2025

Me in 2025😂

Not me it's 2025 now

06.2025

2025

Becky Isponymad you mean your ears?

 @silent7563  you tried

 @silent7563  how are ears loud?

i have a r4 and its awesome case but the new r5 is even better

I bought a Fractal Arc XL under Hardware canucks' recommendation, then they started doing AD integrations, and I never looked back.

Curtis Ransford I'm using HAF 922,  :P  Though Fractal Cases are interesting.

Kerns Noel LOVE my HAF 912... if I saw another case I liked and provided water cooling support, I'd get it. Honorable mentions are the NZXT 440 or the Phanteks Enthoo Pro.

R2 XL if you want a full tower case. 

That bass felt good ngl

bass isnt a sound its a feeling

Linus, you should have Googled about Ghost Paper chilies before you eat one of them. They are the spiciest naturally occurring chilies in the world. And the best variety of then are grown in a eastern state of India named Assam. 

I hope you had nice time after eating one of them. Just one tip for future though. Keep sour cream or sour yogurt/curd next time you decide to eat one of those again. (What I don't think will ever gonna happen again :P)

15hz or c0/16hz is minimum requirement for subwoofer. Even genelec 7382a or barefoot sound lfe 15 is bare minimum.

+1 Fractal Design for the best ad so far.

I have found my long lost twin! Hiccuping spice brother, I have found you! XD

You've won me over Fractal, just bought a Define R5, great work!

Lol man that's some hardcore advertising.  Well done Linus!  

Best sponser spot yet. do a super fun with those peppers. 

0:37 scared the living daylights out of me.

:( that was almost painful to watch linus.  almost.

"Alpine sponsored '98 Civic." I fell off my chair when he said that.

57 people aimed for the like button and missed. Are they using a controller or something?

When you said subwoofer and that base kicked in was great

Luv u fractal design ;)

More sponsors should do this, now I want to buy something from Fractal.

Thanks for the informative video.  I now know everything I need to know about "ghost peppers" and what not to do.  

Looked away for 2 seconds and I thought, he had a bag of weed in his hands. Especially when he said, they were leaves and they smelled strong.

Did Fractal Design wanna kill Linus or something?

Hiccups when you eat something spicy?? That must be one of the cutest things I've witnessed yet.

That ghost pepper pahahaha 

Gotta love fractal picking on Linus

Fractal Design has a sense of Humour. I love it. This has to be the first Advertisement that has worked on me. God job Fractal Design. Well I have been needing a new computer case so it was good timing for me to watch this. I didn't know they were Scandinavian thats pretty cool.

Sourav Kumar RoyChowdhury Never going to happen again.

Techquickie Pretty much expected. Though we we like to see a video, Luke or Keys trying the same on channel for super fun. Or may be a experience vlog thingy from linus himself.

Techquickie My vote is for a cannel super fun where Linus Media Group challenges the pepper!

SyntheticsV2 Carolina reapers aren't naturally occuring though, was made in a lab.

Plus he used his bare hands to pickup the pepper. He probably found out the hard way that he shouldn't have done that a few minutes later when he tried to wipe off his tears with his fingers or went to the bathroom and... oh well...

SyntheticsV2 I believe Carolina Reapers are lab made. That's why I have mentioned naturally occurring.

Techquickie drink vodka (or alcohols) after eating spicy stuff. Proven works, the alcohol dissolves capsaicin

Sourav Kumar RoyChowdhury  paper? profread next tiem.

Techquickie Oh damn, looked like you had so many to spare, only if it was a stretch goal for the office :P

+Sourav Kumar RoyChowdhury Milk products in general. I use milk for that purpose btw.

Ti133700N I'm sure he washed his hands.

Techquickie I think it would be hilarious to get a montage of the LMG team all having one a piece.

I almost died laughing at your reaction.

I'm not 100% sure on this so correct me if I'm wrong, I thought the ghost chili was the hottest pepper that's edible. Meaning that there's a hotter pepper but you can't eat it because it can kill you.

+Emx2000 Yes alcohol does work at very high proof, but shouldn't be used when your tissues are inflamed. Alcohol effect on capsaicin is so low that almost every pepper spray manufacturer uses it as an inert filler.

+Techquickie you should eat a Carolina reaper.

I want that pepper :P.

Sourav Kumar RoyChowdhury Fair enough, although I think it would still be entertaining to watch Linus chew on!

*****  You are correct.  I bought my reaper seeds (and also live) In Fort Mill SC to be accurate.  I grow them with seeds i bought from the guy who cultivated them.  They are much hotter then my ghost peppers(bhut jolokia).  I eat habenaros with no real problems...these are on a whole new level.

+Techquickie a pro tip for eating chili and other really hot stuff... is breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth... NEVER the other way around...

Actually the reaper is hotter and better in every genetic way 😃

Nick Kaumans yes, yogurt works tge best to for the burn. 

+toyota prius memes i drank two liters Milk on Ex after consuming one of these .... Bad idea ....

Steven Zimdin you may take the paper to put in curry not in speaker

I believe Carolina Reapers are now the king of spice, taking the thrown and leaving the Bhut Jolokia peppers in second.

SyntheticsV2 I guess no one have any doubt about it. Let them bring it on.

Bring the "Reapers" to "Channel for Superfun".

Let's make a pledge.

gildedcabbage I am not sure about that either. But according to me it is not correct. Because there are hot sauces available on the planet that are made out of concentrated ghost chili extract.

But I am sure about one thing though, that no chili won't kill you directly. But eating something extremely spicy causes our blood pressure to tumble. And people with poor heart can get into trouble by that.

***** Thanks mate. It looks like I can use this too.

Sourav Kumar RoyChowdhury w

Ti133700N That's a possibility

Joppsta360 Best idea for channel for superfun. 

+NinetyFour Dude. I tought I was retarted for reacting like that. Hahahah

Only for using that word ;)

+NinetyFour I thought I was the only one :D

MinecraftEpicPlayer 
Or the bass was so low that they had a seizure and fell on the dislike button when they were trying to like.

Haha what an awesome sponsor fractal is

Thanks fractal design :D

This explanation is very basic but great! As much as the Audio Engineer inside me wants to correct a couple of things stated here, I understand why Linus choose to leave that information out. It would probably confuse many and bring forth more debate on the subject. Nonetheless, I do appreciate that the basic information given was adequate enough to be rightfully educational. So I will thumbs up to indicate my 80% satisfaction with this video!

aww linus was so cute when he ate that pepper! ^~^

I trust this guy giving facts and i really wish he would tackle about registry cleaners and how reliable they are.

Usually I find the fractal design ads annoying but this was really entertaining, even if not dramatic!

0:35 RIP headphone users

Fractal need to sponsor more of your videos

OK! I need someone to make a gift of the first few seconds!!!

Oh god poor Linus, fair play for doing it XD

Does it annoy anyone else that most people think that woofers are just a shorter name for subwoofers?

I knew there was a reason I used a Fractal case for my last build just before Christmas.

BUT LINUS THOSE ARENT THE ONLY THREE TYPES OF SPEAKERS YOU COMPLETELY MISSED R-ROTARY SUBWOOFERS AND SPEAKER TYPE XYZ

Nice ending. LMMAAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!

Your diagram is wrong. The second driver in the speaker is a midrange driver, not a woofer. It only does about 500-2000Hz, and is meant for vocals. The third driver is a woofer, not a subwoofer. You would never find a subwoofer in a speaker cabinet like that one. The woofer does approximately 100-1000Hz with some going as low as 50. This is why you need a subwoofer if you want to go down below 50s, since a woofer can only produce an extremely low SPL below 50Hz.

that "ad" at the end made me very happy that I just bought a fractal design case. for anyone looking to make a mITX build get the node 202 its tight af

that intro dough

If you are fortunate enough to have a 4k screen you can see his soul burning and his tears screaming to get out.

Did you know that you don't actually 'hear the sound under 60 Hz. You know it's there somehow and obviously you can feel it with a loud subwoofer. And the woofers are actually called Mid Drivers.

You are probably the only one whose reaction seems genuine and 100% legitimate.

+BoltzNBulletz CCleaner is the only one I trust.

did you mean gif?

Stephen de Riel Making a "gif" for someone, it then it becomes a "gift". lol

HonzoNebro
WOOOT! Thank you everyone!

Stephen de Riel
;D Nice catch!

I can't stop watching the beginning with my subwoofer all the way up.

Just press 0 every second :D

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

I've never heard that. Sounds annoying.

oN

No.

mdog95 unless you have a set of $8000 adam audio studio monitors, the largest driver on those speakers is not a subwoofer. Just because it plays lower frequencies than a regular midrange woofer, does not make it a 'subwoofer'

jonnathan deven Yup, I also have some separate-compartment speakers where each driver has its own little compartment, isolated from the other drivers (but still in the same enclosure). This way the air displacement from the main woofer doesnt affect the midrange driver or tweeter.

yeah i was thinking that too! Linus even said that subs are usually in their own enclosure..... um okay, then why are you showing us a picture with a tweeter, midrange and a woofer and saying that the woofer is a sub? lol but then again, he probably wasn't the one editing the video since he was probably vomiting after this vid haha

Toxic Biohazard good information thank you.

jonnathan deven Yes, very correct. Any speaker that you can hear vocals from is definitely not a subwoofer. Proper subwoofers will only play below 250Hz, be in a completely separate enclosure, and have separate power amplification.

Toxic Biohazard Subs crossed at 200hz sound like crap though, but I know it's done in those cheap little plastic HTIB systems cause the crappy little speakers can't play low enough. The recommended standard is like 80hz though I think lower is better.
I'm somewhat disappointed at Linus not mentioning midranges and pointing out the woofer in that speaker as a subwoofer. There are enough people that go around spouting incorrect stuff about audio, we don't need more.

Also wtf is with that speaker diagram at 1:15 showing some random chunk of iron attached to the back of the cone.

Sorry for being late to class, but i also agree; in the 3-way speaker photo the units would normally be called tweeter (high range) - squawker (mid range) - woofer (low range), whereas a subwoofer is definitely a stand-alone unit.

There are actually a good amount of older speaker systems that have tweeters, woofers, and subwoofers all in one enclosure.  I have a set of them in my living room, and they are loud and amazing.

 @mdogg95  That's tweeter, midrange, and woofer.

understandable. I Use ribbon tweeters in my studio monitors. as well as a ribbon mic.The clean sound is hard to find in a standard tweeter!.

Toxic Biohazard a good way to test is if it only does a lot of bass and or you can hear the vocals of the person singing, my sub all I hear is bass and I have 2 woofers and those create the vocals aswell as bass, loving the sound doe much bass such wow (pyle is the company from my woofer/subs

***** No, just because that is what is called does not make it a subwoofer. A subwoofer must meat certain specifications, not just be a woofer that plays lower than another woofer like the name suggests. For a woofer to be a subwoofer, it must ONLY play below 200Hz, be in a separate enclosure from other drivers, and have an independent power amplification.

bassl0va I just said 200 because there are a lot of crappy "subs" that can go up to 200 or 250Hz, but yes those are crap. A decent subwoofer should only play below 100 or 80Hz as you said.

Don Ziolkowski What an interesting design, I wonder what the purpose of it is. However, it still shouldn't be what they used in the video as it is far from conventional design.

Toxic Biohazard True, unless they put a box inside of a box, like  the sub has its own enclosure inside of the main one, and my friend has a OLD DJ setup and it had speekers with a sub on the side x2 so :0

bassl0va 
The random chunk of iron is because speaker cones are almost always made of paper basically and paper is non magnetic and magets are used to move the paper cone. Via a chunk of metal attached. Apparently iron is the metal of choice which makes sense because the cheapest option, aluminum is non magnetic and so iron so probably the cheapest magnetic metal.

Don Ziolkowski Attached to the back of the cone is a copper (or sometime aluminium) coil. It sits in a gap between the top plate and pole piece of the magnet. The top and bottom plate are iron, but they are part of the magnet (of which the magnetic material is ferrite or neodymium) not attached to the cone. You want the cone to be as light as possible while still being strong, so you definitely do not want to attach a lump of iron to it. The diagram shown makes absolutely no sense. Here's what it should look like http://www.centerpointaudio.com/Images/Speaker-Diagram.png

A aluminum coil wouldn't be magnetic and 85% of cones are paper, it's not to scale of course it's a small amount and you get weight savings from it being made of paper

bassl0va 
http://www.sigmatone.com/basic_electronics/speakers/speakers.htm
this is the actual source of his image, he apparently "borrowed" it from this site.

The most important thing here is to note is that "iron metal" and "copper coil" both are attached to the diaphragm, and vibrates along with the diaphragm.

Seems the product they sell does indeed work this way.

there an indian company that vows to keep costs competitive so take it for what its worth.

+Hikikomorisama Considering he's shown to not really understand audio, I wouldn't be surprised.

+Toxic Biohazard Ribbons aren't even that rare anymore, especially in monitors.

Either way. Sound is subjective.

Toxic Biohazard same

Base on watching their videos, I think they don't really know what they are talking about, it's like their using tech stuffs or sound stuff just to promote what they show at the end of each of their videos.
Correct me if im wrong.

i agree, i have 6x9 AS A  home setup i wired it to a home 7.1 channel reciver, it sounds beastly ! the clarity the sound on movie and musik is epik and clear

600 Dollar Bose sound bars have 2 1/2" woofers in them. ???

Finally another audiophile!

trucker 9000 what the frick is going on in your head it is called a bass shaker

Midrange meant for vocals?😂😂😂😂😂😂 SMH

@timmetjuh070 Midrange seems to cover most of the vocal frquencies, as well as instruments.

Good speakers don't need woofer accompaniment. Many can go down to roughly 20hz with minimal roll-off.

Audiohacks he said he left out less common types of speakers, such as ribbon tweeters, rotary subwoofers, and other expensive/rare stuff like that because 99.9% of people will never need to know what those are...

 @Music42Ever  Midrange is as common as the others. They also incorrectly pointed at a midrange driver and called it a woofer.

Toxic Biohazard 3" tweeter, 4" woofer, 12" subwoofer, and the entire housing is about 4' tall.  I'm not sure about price because my mom got them in the '80s and doesn't really remember, but I'd imagine that with the way they sound and shake the room, they were pretty dang expensive.

mdog95 yup thats a woofer. I have about 12 of those in my room, all different types and sizes. They are definitely woofers, not subwoofers...

jonnathan deven I never said you couldnt do that, its just not supposed to be that way. The problem with putting subwoofers in an enclosure with other speakers is that the air volume displaced by the subwoofer cone excursion pushes the cone of any other speakers within the enclosure. Unless the other speakers in the enclosure are the same type/size of speaker, the subwoofer will be dampened by the other speakers, or you could possibly rip the cone out of the other speakers if they are significantly smaller than the subwoofer.

The main point is, you will never find a subfwooer in a speaker like the one used in the image.

Agree, I have a stereo set with 3-way speakers and there is bass (till I go with a song by decaf) that sounds similar to my 7.1 system. When I Do go with decaf my 7.1 subwoofer goes crazy while my stereo 3-way brings only "normal" bass

Toxic Biohazard actually it does not need to be in its own seperate box, ive put 2 8" woofers in a box with one 15" sub in the middle >:/ so hah bish listen to the rules and shiz

In this video, he said he’s talking about the most COMMON audio setup. And he’s right. Tweeters take care of the higher frequency’s, woofers handle the mid-low frequency’s, and a subwoofer handles the really low frequency’s. Of course in some setups, there are also mid range drivers and super tweeters.

@heyitsme The most common audio setup in a 3 way speaker as they pictured would not exclude a midrange speaker and include a subwoofer. tweeters handle high frequency(>2000hz), mid-range as the name implies handles mid frequency(~250-2000hz), woofer handles low frequency(up to max ~500hz).
Sub-woofer handles very low frequency(from 20hz to maximum of ~200hz), almost always in a seperate unit, and probably more commonly used for movies than music in a home. Subwoofers only became common in the 90s.
Using tweeter + woofer + subwoofer would miss the middle range completely.
Sometimes 1 driver would handle woofer & mid-range frquencies, but I think that would usually only be with 2-way speakers(speaker units that only have tweeter + 1 other driver, perhaps the tweet would go lower than usual too) I guess the woofer/mid-range driver may be little if at all different physically, but have a different crossover setup.

Toxic Biohazard  you Know he Didn't Talk about Ribbon tweeters at all. I am guessing that it is a lack of research. 

Toxic Biohazard  Woofer is a slang term...If you want to be technical they are all electro-acoustic transducers




The typical frequency range for a human can reach well below 500hz On average the male voice is from 100hz-2khz females being a little higher 150-2.2khz. There are people with extended vocal ranges like singers and such. 
.

@Raymond Moyer Woofer isn't a slang term though.I suppose it's similar to how baritones etc are used to categorize singers.

dough?

below 20Hz I believe...it is felt not heard

Linus, please stop triggering my perverted mind...

best ad plug I've seen Linus do. great job fractal.

FD made Linus work for his money back then.

The song is "Inside Out" by DotEXE for anyone wondering

I hope for Linus' sake they had a bag (lolol Canada) of milk standing at-the-ready behind the camera. xD

Best commercial/sponsorship everrrrrr!!!!!!

Suggestions for future fast as posibles
Updated, nVidia and AMD GFX naming explained
And comparing nVidia to AMD as fast as possible :)

I never actually watched one of these goofy challenges, but I decided to stay for this one. I like how you can see the moment his the pepper hits. His face explodes as it turns bright red and immediately is covered in sweat. Good show 

How is this 4K from 6 years ago?

For that last bit this deserves a like.

just going to throw this out there
I have seen some head sets that get up to ~40khz....
and I have a head set that has a low end of like 8hz...
I honestly believe that the extra 12hz below the normal head set range adds  a huge difference, as they give me the most crisp clear lows that I personally have ever heard.

Best Fractal Design challenge so far :-D

Who is watching this in 2025

If fractal design keeps doing this I am soon gonna have a Scandinavian case on my desk.

all types: high ( tweeters) mid-high , mids ( normal speakers) , mid-low(woofers) , lows ( subwoofers).

Liked for the intro.

Thank you Fractal Design.

I actually watched this one to the end. Well done.

Awesome! 🎧🎶😎

linus-headbanging-to-dubstep is the best thing ever

***** They have milk (along with orange juice) in bags in Wisconsin. So, that's around half of the way there. Of course, Wisconsin one of the largest dairy producers in the states.

Baka C.​ I wasn't asking for troll debates, I was looking for him to just drop; comparing nVidia model numbers to AMD model numbers in terms of performance: "It can't be done" as fast as possible over :D﻿
Also he has previously said things along the lines of, although he has sponsors, he openly knocks there products if they have faults, he isn't biased just because they are his sponsors, I recall several occasions when he has knocked products openly then openly spoke about why he thinks he still has sponsors when on occasions he can be unrelenting or other words, but who am I to put words into Linus' mouth, perhaps I am remembering wrongly videos I have watched

Baka C. What was the budget?
Even $5,000 is a budget and value is a hard thing to place on anything according to definitions of value
And yes maybe I am too innocent buy fortunately Linus does not appear to be sponsored by either AMD or nVidia so he would be breaking any sponsor rules,

Lily Mitchell you re sweet

No one

+Cherry A couple points.

1. Not everyone is average. The extreme range is more like 12hz to 25khz. 

2. Frequencies that can't be heard on their own can still have an effect on the audible frequencies. Things like interference and resonance can all alter the sound. This is one of the many reasons that acoustic instruments sound better live than on a recording or through amps and speakers.

lykourgos lykourgakhs For the average person that is correct.

+MERK MUSIK He also forgot to mention some speakers use a 3 way configuration. Using a tweeter to cover the highs from 10,000 to 20,000HZ and some tweeters can actually reach as high as over 30,000HZ. A mid woofer to comer the 1,000 to like 9,000HZ. And a woofer to cover like 50 to like 300HZ. And some subwioofers can reach as low as 18HZ.

+EpicEverythingDude75 Yeah 30 000 hz, tell me what's the point of that?

Cherry Brings out more clarity in your music. High end ribbon tweeters can reach up to 45,000HZ.

EpicEverythingDude75 never heard about average human hearing range?

+wingracer 16 Good points. I, for example, can easily hear 12Hz.  I don't know what my upper limit is, as my phone is my best source of a tone generator at the moment (and is also the weakest link in my stereo).  I can hear 21kHz via that, but I have no idea if the amplifier and DAC inside could be the culprit, but even if so I doubt that I can hear much higher than that.

If you have a subwoofer that can go below 20 hz you will feel the bass but you wont hear it

Thanks for the clarification

This video has one of the best intros of Techquickie

"Alamo City Pepper products" in a google search. Oh wow. GO San Antonio!!! It's nice to see products from home being sent to Canada!

Fractal Design sure knows how to make me watch sponsor spots

thanks fractal! I needed that <3

TFW the ad is the most entertaining part of the video.

thanks for the sound stuff.  Ouch on the pepper thing!!

That ending was fucking awesome. 

I was just about to close the video when the fractal design ad came up... omg such a hidden jewel haha

From now on we love fractal-design .

best episode ever thanks fractal

Very good expansions. Entertaining too!

Wow! Kudos for that pepper. I have so much respect for you now.

This actually made me want to get a Fractal case. Advertising done right!

I love you fractal!! Make him do it again this year

Best. Sponsor. Ever.

thank you fractal design

Best sponsorship segment ever.... I wouldn't have even attempted that. Go Linus!

That was the best sponsor spot segment ever! LOL

Best challenge yet!! Thanks fractal!!

Gonna go buy a new fractal design case now. Best sponsor add ever.

Proud to own a Define R4. Fractal is using my money wisely!

Love the opening

Josh from fractal design has the best advertising campaign ever

wow, props to fractal design!

My fav Techquickie so far :) Go Fractal Design!

thank you fractal design xD

oh poor linus he looked like he was about to cry

This is literally the best sponsor I've ever seen😂😂

Thanks fracal for brightening my day


Got my +1 for that ending, right there.

Fractal Designs just got themselves a new customer.

When I'm in need of a product Fractal Design offers, I'll go there first solely because they made you eat a ghost pepper. 10/10 would watch again

I wish fractal would sponsor more content again!!

OMG THE ENDING WAS HILARIOUS !!!!!!!!!!! XD 

That ending. Go Fractal Josh

I think the pepper part was the only part of this video I will ever remember

This is how product advertisements should be done. I'm off to buy a fractal case!

I'm a huge fan of fractal design now.

Best. Ad. Ever.

1:33 🤣🤣🤣🤣👍🏻 "Size is in fact everything"

Best intro ever!

Thank you Fractal design for amazing ads lol

PLEASE RELEASE THIS VIDEO'S BEHIND THE SCENES.

Best one yet!!!

Best ad ever.

Best sponsor review ever

A thumb up for the chilli challenge alone, fair play!

Fractal design is the best sponsor ever

Defo best challenge to date

that intro is FIRE!!!

Thanks for this TO THE POINT presentation!

I don't usually watch ad spots, but when I do, it's because of Linus's reaction to eating a ghost pepper.

That's some genius marketing

i would have never thought that linus would actually try that challenge!! what a LAD!

The Size is everything thing killed me :)

Great video, as usual

after you said wooferz named after dogs, it reminded me the whole time to that dog shouting XD

I like my subwoofers to go as low as 1 hz

I subscribed because of the last reaction with the pepper! By the way, the info about the speakers was great though!

Best add spot ever! 👍

0:36 😁nice representation

glad to see im not the only one that gets hiccups when i eat spicy stuff.

Oh Fractal, you are simply my favorite sponsor :)

Oh Fractal. That was beautiful. I'm glad I'm going to be buying one of your cases here in a few days. <3

I need to be able to like this more for the chill challenge!

best challenge yet!

lmao, the humor was top notch in this episode 

Those peppers are really spicy. Awesome vid guys.

thank you Fractal Design 

Best ending ad ever.

Linus' neck looks soo long without his beard.

that bird killed me

Love that intro

Epic, Gost Pepper!! Brave, Brave man. Thanks for the laughs!! And product info.

Took it like a champ!

fractal design best sponsor ever :D

RESPECT to Linus! Took balls man! Good show, sport!

Came for a video on sound equipment. Stayed for the spiced out Linus

i love fractal design!

freaking josh, what a sadist

Good job signing off the video whilst suffering there Linus! Can't fault your professionalism.

Best sponsor ever!

3:51 "squirrelex is surely dope as heck"🤣🤣🤣🤣💀

he got red so quick at the end i'm dead

Gotta love them fractal design... X-)

Really cool lol the pepper challenges are brutal

Thank you for the very good explanation

Would love to see Behind The Scenes of this video :D

i love good audio witch is why its easyer to build your own rather pay big bucks to get it

It would have been better if one of the camera guys grabbed a cam and followed him with it to see what happend

Good information bro 👍👍👍👍👍

I couldn't stop laughing when he ate the pepper. I almost felt bad.

haha, that end.. you could see the sweat dripping from his forhead xD poor guy

I am now a fan of Fractal Design. lol Priceless. I do like their computer case though.

I love those pepper challenge : always fun to see the face gradually goes all red and tears starting to appear

Haha dat intro and outtro! So intense

How could I not like this :D

0:42 PLEASE NEVER DO A TWEETER SOUND AGAIN

Whenever I'm watching this show, I feel like I should be taking notes...

Fractal Design is the best sponsor ever haha

Sound systems with subwoofers are really nice for general media content.

Wow, the things Linus'll do so Josh'll keep giving him what he needs on a regular basis.

Fair play to yo for stepping up and taking that pain for the team dude. Be sure to grate some into everyone elses lunch some time so they appreciate your sacrifice :D

Dude I had to like just because I know you paid the ultimate price eating that fireball!

Bring in more Fractal Design sponsorship! :)))) 

As someone who had a fresh carolina reaper, my attention perked up when I heard the challenge!
:) Thanks Fractal

i love that intro

Linus is such a good sport for eating that ghost pepper. I would have done it too for a sponsor like that but I don't have sponsors

Thanks you fractal, that was hilarious!

very well explained

Hearing that low frequency tone from my subwoofer :P

suddenly I feel this urge to buy fractal products

I love Fractal Design's

Best sponsor ever :)

That was hysterical!!! Hiccups huh too funny!

Best advertisement ever

That bird sound was a bit too realistic 🙆🏽‍♂️

wow one of the best sponsor show ever..

The end of the video was the best part xD

Wow. Very cool!

poor linus...damm that ghost peppers

I wanna see sponsors doing this to all the Youtubers.

I love the end! :D

5:18 we lost him 😂😂😂

This will make me seriously consider a fractal design case.

Should have noted compression drivers when talking about tweeters, usually horn loaded.

Omg the ending

2:52 when my sub kicks in lel

Great video even better ending

The high shutter speed makes the video look very jumpy, even though it may be easier to greenscreen it looks odd.

Nice video. I actually feel more sorry for Linus that he ate one of those pepper than when he had to eat the banana.

dwl linus that pepper challenge had me on the floor lol
 

wow!  that was awesome.

Linnus hiccuping is hilarious! 

thanks for all the info, now i know the difference, thanks

I want to see Luke try a Trinidad Moruga Scorpion.

Pro tip: if you listen to rush, get  as many tweeters as possible so that you can hear Geddy Lee's vocals better.

Haha, you done well with the pepper.

TY FRACTAL <3

4:50 was that somebody else's pepper challenge Pawnce's?

Studio Monitors such as Neumann KH310A or Munro Egg 150 are the best!

great video

linus face after the ghost pepper :D

Haha poor guy with the pepper

Explain audio formats like DTS 5.1?

Ahhh as soon as you said ghost pepper I was saying don't do it out loud. I know your pain. Love the show!

lol that pepper!

poor linus...damm that ghost peppers

RIP linus's tongue and taste buds. 

Fuck this channel’s good

he should of aten the whole bag that would be AMAZING LAWLZ

is linus ok he looked like his face was going to burst like anaphylactic shock.

Linus's voice is a tweeter

Dat pepper

I watch Techquickie videos about just about anything, solely for watching the sponsor spot, when normally I live my life doing completely the opposite, so yeah kudos to Linus and Fractal for getting sponsor ads right!

5:00 When the edible kicks in faster than usual...

3:14

"WHEN THERE NOT CONFIGURED TO OVERPOWER EVERYTHING ELSE"

best video with that challenge xD

Liked because of that ad.

that intro though

I love how little u know

Awesome pepper challenge. I usually don't bother to watch crap like that but this was very entertaining. Sorry for your torture.

who can dislike this. that poor soul ate a whole pepper. cmon man have some sympathy.

Wow bro I grow my own ghost and reaper peppers which scores over 2 million scoville units . I'll give u props Linus , u got heart!

next would be weird fruits or foods...
linus eats a durian?
linus eating chocolate coated ants?
linus eating roasted scorpions?

One like for every "Woofer"

"Swallowed a small amount of juice"...Giggity

This boi gotta a tweeter voice

linus that was either brave or stupid eating that ghost pepper either way hope your doing well after eating that stay safe bro we need you for the channel!!

How funny. I live in the Alamo city (San Antonio for those who don't know) and I've had a ghost chili before. Those things are no joke. 

The end almost killed me 🤣🤣🤣 hip

Wait what!!??? 4k video 8 years ago I thought it is a video of year from 2020-2022☠️

That bird scared the shit out of me

Dat editing. Oh my god.

That bass thooooo 2:51 Probably going to need some over ears to notice.

Thank you for explaining why the two on my trunk I starting not sound as good I have shit 6x9 and even worse tweeters and stock 6.5s in my 2 doors

video suggestion - what to look for when buying standard desktop speakers

lol
It was the best way to show how the sponsor packs good quality chillies n.n

I'm dying laughing

Thanks fractal design, im gonna check out your website now... ? :D

we used to put famous daves ghost pepper sauce on everything.

But the overall Image quality isn't as good as nowadays 4k

Linus you simply rock

felt my head shake a little at 2:53 lol

Just noticed at 2:52 there are sub frequencies in the background.

Informative and entertaining. 👍👍👍🤯🤯🤯

I am in 2025, there is always a question others have not examined clearly. thanks Linus. from the past.

I was expecting to hear the key word "Crossover" but i almost forgot that after seeing Linus eating that pepper xD
Best sponsor ever :D  (are these Josh's ideas?)

lol.  ive never hiccups from taking a bite from pepper before

I died at Casual drive to work. 3:07
 Hahahah! Great video with a lot of knowledge in a short amount of time.

I recognize that green, is that Audition in the backgrounds?

Holy shit, when the subwoofer sound came up i thought i was in a freakin earthquake

The attempt to eat a pepper got you my sub.

You're awesome Linus. Even though you chickened out. I still applaud the effort.

Tasty. Good on ya! Great sport... Well done.

Well I certainly hope Fractal Design is compensating you generously for your troubles!

OH MY GOD YOU CAN HEAT HIS BODY TRYING TO THROW IT UP

Interesting watch... Not because I learned anything, but because I watch these YouTube videos on my TV with surround sound... And year I heard the frequency sweep.

BEST EPISODE YET!!
LOL!!!
+1

Holy shit that was funny. Josh, you're a genius!

What happen to the Mid Range? Subwoofers weren't common place until the late 90's (if I can remember), it was common to have a 3 way home speaker cabinet to have a Tweeter - Mid Range - Woofer.

When the bird sound came on it scared me and I fell off the chair

And then you have a sub-subwoofer (0-20hz)

😆 that peper makes you  from dead boy to hell boy real quick

i love fractal design for shit like this

fractal always has the best sponsor spots for linus, i bet he suffered for hours after this

wow, you can actually see the color of his face change as the heat affected him.

hahahahaaaaa the end is soooooo HALARIOUS!!! :D

LMAO. i heard him say  "ghost pepper" and i was already starting to laugh

I can hear somewhat a frequencies when he said "subwoofer" 2:52

Would be interesting if you made a video about how headphones are built

Fractal design is like Linus' cruel mistress

ahhh fu linus the bird sound killed my ears -.-

AHHH I LOVE IT!

Please tell me there's a behind the scenes for this.

Fractal definitely won this.

 Lol fractal design keeping adds interesting!

that was almost as funny as the wine rack video on channel super fun...

I feel like this is the guy who gets pissed off when your bassin' at a stoplight

I resort to this channel for a pc stuff offten. I know I'm late with this comment but, that was an awesome way to end this video. thank you!!

Poor Linus

I laughed so hard when I saw he ate the whole pepper....

i was listening on my speakers and the bird tweet made me jump

What a good sport

when you put on hardbass on maximum subwoofer
your computer shaking intensifies

I'm gonna go buy something from Fractal Design now.

Future episode idea: The whole LTT team does ghost peppers, but let's keep the cammera rolling a bit longer. Maybe a ghost pepper challenge where you have to eat it then divide into Counter Strike teams and play each other. Or you have to build a computer the fastest AFTER eating the pepper.

I get hiccups too when I eat too spicy

What in the world did you have to chew the pepper for??? OMG

Amusing marketing tactic, Fractal Designs.

dat intro lol

My headphone does all 3 jobs in one..

Lmao One of the funniest pepper challenge reaction I've seen.

Damn that red face xD poor linus xD

Best video :D

Linus, I know just how you feel!!! I thought I was the only person in the world who got hiccups when eating something super spicy!!! I would give you a mango Lassii if I could come over (Canada is a bit far from New Zealand). Good explanation too, enjoyed it! 

Do a Update with compression horns

i'm watching this in 2019, and i guarentee that he's still feeling the effects of this pepper to this day

SOMEONE MAKE AN EXTENDED VERSION OF THE FIRST 2 SECONDS

Fractal Design doing the right thing... XD

“Casual drives to work in your alpine sponsored 98 civic”

big up for the FiveFour clothes! whoo hoo!!

MORE GHOST PEPPERS!

i came here for the speaker im staying for linus crying

This video had a very interesting ending

Great video ! Speaker function 101 made simple in everyday terms  for guys like me , Awesome just remember cook with those devel peppers don't eat them alone 👿 🔥

When he says subwoofer I have troubles breathing

There are way more kinds of speaker components though.. 
But the common types of speaker drivers are as following:

Tweeter - High frequency driver typically assigned to produce sound waves above 2 kHz
* Dome Tweeters, Horn-loaded tweeters, Piezo-electric tweeters are some of the more common types of high frequency drivers.

Mid-range drivers - Name is as it sounds (litarally), these are drivers that's assigned to the vocal spectrum of sound, typically between 200-2000 Hz
* Mid-range drivers are commonly sized between 3-6.5" (7.5-17 cm)

Woofer - Low frequency drivers commonly assigned to play the low-end of the sonic spectrum, usually from 200 Hz and down. 
However, there are in certain circumstances drivers that is used as both woofers and mid-ranges at the same time. These are referred to as mid-bass drivers
Another variant of the mid-woofer used in car applications is specifically assigned to play kick-bass and frequencies above 50 Hz. 

Subwoofer - Large very low frequency drivers assigned to play the bass sections below 80-100 Hz
There is also a wide variety of subwoofers available, such as: 
Competition-grade (SPL) - These are normally the big beefy ones commonly used in car-audio applications
Sound Quality drivers - The high-end home-theater subwoofers fall into this category
Professional - The kind of subwoofers used in concerts and at big events
Everyday listening-grade - Cheaper and smaller alternatives of the aforementioned usually fall into this category

How about for a other episode, explain what libraries are, as in C++ libraries and such

fractal designs is a fun company!!! haha

We eat a lot of hot peppers in my home and by that experience, when you hear hiccups, you know those are hot peppers lol. Poor Linus, he probably felt the heat ringing all the way up to his ears.

TL;DW: Subwoofers produce Bass, depending on size; it factors the amount and loudness of Bass.

Ya man

Linus Dance Tips 0:01

"For your drives to work in your Alpine sponsored 98 civic" hahaha

Wow. Your face color went from normal to red so quick that I actually noticed it happen.

LoL, best ending ever.. :D Never seen a guy change colour quite so fast :p

this was great ..

dat intro tho

I bet that Josh is the one who comes up with the things to do to Linus. 



Even I Get Hiccups When Something's Really Spicy Linus...Love You Man😆😁😂

Video of different types of physics engines?

WORTH IT!! (funny that Linus goes on to eat spicy jerky every week on the WAN show... guess he liked it xD)

Did a random google search, they come back at me with linus 6 years ago hahaha thanks bro

Oh please post a full pepper video. xD

Lol that's the weirdest way of advertising I think I've ever seen

I would have never been able to eat that pepper! Damn

All the respect to Linus for the pepper brave man

0:34
JESUS THAT IS LOUD

i use a 3.5 inch subwoofer to play EVERYTHING

oof when he said subwoofer, my subwoofer starts violently shaking

HAHAHA the Ghost Pepers

I will buy a Fractal Case just because you made Linus eat that pepper =D
I definitely want more torture-Linus-sponsorships!!!

Ghost pepper? Oh jeez man... I'm so sorry D:

This video's summary - subwoofers - bass (low frequencies); woofers - mids (middle frequencies *note that the human voice is in this range); and tweeters - high frequencies (Other tweeters use piezoelectric instead of dynamic drivers).

You poor soul. I would be way worse off than you if I had to eat one of those..

Mad respect, love the vids. Keep doin what you're doin.

Go Fractal!! hehe

This vid is probably old but Hey that was PhotoExtremist

LOL I'm wearing those Sennheiser HD595's right now.. 1:55

Linus, i've been eating ghost/king chillies since childhood, but i have never tried eating it like you did. may you taste buds rest in peace....

ahahahahahahhaahhahahahaha dat ending tho XD

Midranges missing from the title and they are common

I bet somewhere in there, Fractal Design was trying to make a "cooler" reference???

2:50 lol

Holy. Shit much respect to u. Bro

i dont know why but a lot of things i watch in as fast as possible, im already familiar with. xD

Comparing the sound of an average woofer to a dog bark, even though it's named after it;
is like comparing your favorite meal to a piece of literal sh*t.

love the end of the video sweet chili peper

That look between 4;56 and 5:02!!!

nice chilis

how about midrange speaker? on a complete sound system set up?

Never heard of tweeters or woofers b4 but I assume they are the same as Discants and Mid-bass

Thanks for the video but I thought your voice was gonna be deeper lol

Make a video about dual boot phones


lol he turned so red XD

I knew you were crazy!!!

I Bet It Was Fractal Josh Who Came Up With The Idea

Very instructive video. But one question: Use or not stereo subwoofers? When an why?

Nice Hz drop

Please tell me there's a gif of those first couple seconds! XD

So fun!!!

just putting the pepper in your mouth alone is harsh but man ghost peppers are hard core so bravo for trying it =) 

new years in the AU

Behind desk cable management

OH MY GOD! That was so funny and sad at the same time! Poor Linus XD! I loved this episode of FAP. ^^

damn, I should buy some products from Fractal Design

O yea love the ghost pepper

fastest outro EVER

Somebody should make a loop of the ibtro

best sponsor ever hahahaha

Explain about speaker impedance as quick as possible please.

Linus getting tortured by Fractal best part of the video.

ribbon tweeter ftw :D

Get some all directional MBL speakers or Altec Lansing OMNI Speakers if you got 40k laying around or more :P

compare his face colour from before and after he ate the pepper

lol.. i was just waiting to see if that voice would go from 'Mickey Mouse doing helium' to a frequency inaudible to humans..

0:17. lmao i actually farted at that time

When will i even find flaws in your videos Linus 😂...on point content

Linus's eyes got as big as one of those anime charactors LOL

listening with my subwoofer

FunFact: Linus's voice was entirely reproduced on your tweeter speaker

You should have said Frack open the bag 😂 LOL xD

0:00 can I get a 24h version?

You should use the end of this video in your future videos (the part were say like it or dislike it and don't forget to subscribe)

my Subwoofer went crazy at 2:50

do u mention Squakers and Squeekers in this ?

lol first time i watched the commercial

Holy shit!

That ghost pepper totally owned Linus... 

haahahhaahha LMAO that reaction

4:12 bro said ghost pepper just in time before 12 busted in

bruh my headphones and normal laptop speakers could not do the bass that u put when there was the word subwoofer but i put it on my sound systam it did it

INSIDE INSIDE INSIDE OUT INSIDE INSIDE OUT OUT!

anyone else noticed that base frequency at 2:52 ?

please do more audio videos

I run a setup of two full range drivers along with a woofer. Logitech Z213. Currently using Skullcandy Spoke 2XL earbuds.

Thank you Fractal for making Linus eat a ghost pepper. Now we just need the entire company to compete in eating them on Channel Super Fun

What are some of the best tweeters?

I enjoy pepper. I know when I've had too much when I start to cry. I sympathize with you Linus. I enjoyed though, heheh PEACE!

Luke hsould Do it Next!!!

back for the pepper ;)

oh snap

Hmmm, you wouldn't want to delve into room modes and speaker directivity that much, everyone might die

Back in the good old days, you didn't need sub-woofers, speakers were generally bigger. A regular woofer back in the 80's and earlier would cover the range a modern sub-woofers do. Modern woofers would have been called mid-range speakers back in the good old days.

4:55 lot's going on at that moment he fucked up internal combustion inside mouth😂

0:36 Dang, rip my ears

The tweeter,mid-range,woofer and subwoofer

Just wondering, did fractal also ask for a Cinnamon challenge etc.? xD

2:52












the pain is real.

Love the 'Smartie Pants' bit. I wonder how many non-Canucks even get it?
                   ^ Not a typo

2:51 what happened to the audio quality for a few seconds?

My cousin grew some of those ghost peppers on our garden and i got one that wasnt any spicier than a tomato, then i got a jalapeno that was about as spicy as a habanero

Where's the behind the scenes part? xd

Omg I laughed so much I was crying !!! 

LOL that was awesome

Hahaha :p more of linus getting punnished 

LMFAOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

(Insert he need some milk vine here)

from now on you eat of those peppers every show !! roflol

FractalJosh made iTheGreek show the ending on his Twitch stream. We all lol'd. All hail FractalJosh.

Evil Fractal Design is evil! Gotta love 'em for this unforgettable sponsoring challange.

"I only swallowed a small amount of juice but i'm on fire" - Linus, end of 2014

i think the guy behind the camera should eat 2 of them there peppers lol

pls explain super tweeter,midrange,fullrange,

Waiting for the time when Fractal Josh makes Linus commit seppuku instead of telling us about the great airflow and Scandinavian design of Fractal's cases and power supplies.

2:52 That's why i have Trust Issue

Funny, those ghost peppers were packaged in my Home City of San Antonio, Texas. Let us know how it is.

Idea suggestion for whoever reads the comments: Make a channel super-fun video detailing a competition-esq thing where you challenge various members of LMG to eat out of that bag of peppers. 

is that a rockford fosgate shirt?

I grow those peppers...and i give respect

Hay Linus... how does the ExtraBass works for Sony Speaker systems (Particularly which range of frequencies...)

Linus why did you eat that pepper

What kind of subwoofer can i used in my onkyo tx nr 609.

I'm enjoying my z523 :) ;P :D

I hate myself for laughing at the fart

The fool thought the heat would go away by getting rid of the source!

"Casual drives to work in your Alpine Sponsored '98 civic" 😂😂😂😂 

I need a gif of linus in the beginning

Your torment just made me buy a fractal ARC Midi R2 case for my new build.

oh poor linus... why would you do that... a ghost pepper... you poor kid i wouldn't have done that, and i love spicy stuff

lol  thought he was gonna cover one of Edzel's lenses with throw up for a second there

the chilli aession is the best :) -) - <

Don't die bro :)

josh please keep sponsor linus  we want more pain i mean  videos XD

it was just a little pepper

subs are best!

What is Frame Pacing as fast as possible :)

his voice is so high 😂 like a tweeter

When people ask me why I like Linus
I will point them to this video

There’s definitely a tweeter in your voice box.

hahaha. why is the passive radiator coupled with the subwoofer in the Focal SM9 for instance. and what is it exactly

dude man be careful those chillies mean business lol x

please don't die on us Linus

Ghost pepper used to be the hottest pepper in the world rating at about 1 million scoville units. I'm just glad they at least had the decency to not give you a Carolina Reaper rating at 1.5 million scoville units. 


i have 2 4 inch bookshelf speakers 1 8 inch woofer and 2 18 inch subwoofers

Really ? Our live broadcast ?! 😅🤣

i thought we had an earthquake at 2:51 😂😂

Alamo City Pepper Products is from San Antonio Texas where I’m from

The primary reason that woofers need an enclosure is to isolate the two equal and opposite sound waves generated by the back and front part of the cone, when not in an enclosure the woofers cancel out most of the sound the produce, similar to active noise canceling headphones.

This was NINE years old....

Ideas how to cancel  out vibration or trembling if your neighbors have you trembling from some kind of low frequency? :'(

Hey Linus ! You didn't said what type of drivers subwoofers use !? 

Hello from 2022!

so how does sound get produced when the air is moved by a speaker? more specifically how does a speaker produce specific sounds, for example, how does it produce a a tweeting bird vs a dubstep "wub wub wub" thing?  i know its probably physics or some sciency thing but i want to know HOW it works

I could smell the ghost peppers thru my mic, thts how strong they are....... xD

I laughed way too hard at that. 

I liked your reaction when you ate the 🌶

Linus, you have a typo there: it's diaphragm not diaphram!!

comase el chile compa!!!jajajaajajja

Inside out yussss

Your face becameso red so quick :D

Omg they made Linus cry :O

Linus, you are extremely brave for eating that ghost pepper without sour cream or ice water near you. I've eaten 1 red & 1 yellow overly ripened ghost peppers on a dare last year. And my mouth eyes, nose, and lips burned for at least 2 hours:-( And, the head ache I received afterwards was not fun either!

thumbs up for the attempt at eating that

who else got earraped when the bird came

i pissed myself at the begging XDDDDD

At least you swallowed some juice, Linus.

I TOO get hiccups when something is spicy! It's not cool. We have so many things in common!

OMG! That's Linus! Subscribeeeee.....

@ 5:10 what a sunshine :-D

0:37 nah with this I'm never gonna hear the speaker the same way no more

Im tearing up so much for laughing xD 

I only have woofers and sub woofers  on my sound  system.... so I didn’t hear anything you said....  lol

S. Miller 
Don't use ice water, use ice milk.

Liked the video based solely on the pepper challenge. hahaha
Fractal, you trolls you hahahaha!

You really look like that guy that i saw on talent show
you even sound like him.

sub woofer is a part of a sound system, woofer is integrated in the speaker box
thad middle speaker was ,mid, not woofer

newly subbed

best part 4:39 - 4:42
wow even the smell is strong

Enjoy the peppers, I grow those, and have had them dried, hiccups are normal for first timers.

Vodka! Fight fire with fire! FIIIIIIIIIREEEEEEEEEE! :D

HiFi for Homecinema is really expensive... the amps are aswell
10/10 for the pepper^^

Should have brought some milk.

i wonder if all sponsers should do that in future ? 

So basically tweeters produce sound while woofers produce bass and sound and subwoofers produce only bass

i shit you not i farted by coincidence at the exact same time as the sound effect

happy 1337k sub

Oh my god. I've never laughed so hard watching TQ/LTT. Please do more incredibly painful things.

Spicy sponsor.

DAMN YOU LINUS !!! YOU WONT BE FORGIVEN : Last days, we had 3 or 4 earthquaques, I had my headset on when you talked about the subwoofer part, I let you imagine my reaction !!! DAMN YOU LINUS !!!

GO GO POWER RANGERS! RED RANGER IN ACTION!

best vid everr 

That face at 5:00

Hope you had some milk or whip cream handy after that pepper >_0

2:52 would you mind leaving my sub in its place next time? lmao

LOL this was hilarious. 
somehow my chinese friend thinks ghost pepper isn't that spicy.

redhead :D Wtf fire pepper :P

Linus cool as hell

Ghost pepper.....your fucked bruh! Lol

Question: What about Horns?  How do they work and how good of sound can they make compare to other types of more home speakers? Are they high, mid or low use?

Young Linus my man

A subwoofer is a dog barking in a deep hole.

I have a Panasonic SA AK25 so what is the difference between a super woofer and a normal woofer?

I wanna see what Linus did after the video ended !

Omg Linus I can't believe you took it.. I was sitting in the tub in slowly getting colder water and when that part came up, I actually started sweating.. wtf? Weird shit.. Crazy f'er... :)

Awwwhahaha I feel bad, but its still pretty funny

I can't believe you ate that shit...

Linus' voice only comes out from the tweeters, I don't know why.

so he's saying that to get off faster, i should press it against a tweeter.

And that kids... Is the story of how Linus died

We now all have to buy Fractal Design products to let them know their sponsoring approach is working and encourage them to torment Linus even more!

When I was little I thought they woofed.

Don't die Linus !!!! 

inside inside upside down

Does size matter?
😏

Most tweeters cover 4 kHz (4000 Hz) and above, not 2 kHz and above. And if a midrange driver is used, the tweeter crossover can be as high as 8 kHz.

-.- you almost blew my sub at @ 2:53

I liked it because of the fart sound. It made me lol.

I was so sure he was about to puke right there, poor fellow!

Linus's sponsor must have hated him. Forcing him to eat ghost pepper 🌶️, that's evil.

If you didn't hear the bass at 2:51 seconds, you need some new headphones

Next episode: eat the Carolina Reaper. 2 million scoville...

😂😂😂😂 I get hiccups too 😂😂😂😂

Linus opens a half ounce of dank ghost peppers. 

Smarties are a Canadian only candy. ;)

How many people caught that low ass bass note at 2:51?

Neo is that you? Wow....

Like if you want him to make a vid of him and the crew eating ghost peppers!!

That fool turned into a strawberry!

How is the camera man not laughing him self to death 

I already know tweeters, mid range drivers, and subwoofer, why am I watching this video?

Squeek Squeek , Dont Eat Peppers !

the fart joke made me like the video!

Aura Studio 4 speaker by Harman Kardon has a subwoofer and 6 midranges but not tweeters; how does it work?

You should try the Carolina reaper next. .

Well I Actually learnt something From the Video!?

That is a king chilli

poor Linus LOL xD

poor linus ahahahahaha

Linus looks so funny when trying to play it cool when in pain 😂🤣

Linus uses only my tweeters

Can someone make a gif or webm of the first 3 seconds?

Linus you are nuts. :P (In a good way)

you forgot MID-RANGE !

Also Linus you forgot to mention Woofers and subwoofers in Sealed environments which allow for more precise and harder hitting bass with the drawback of higher power consumption.

3:50 squirrel rax

 Song at intro?

don't eat the seeds

okay i get what are these so what are treble and bass when i alter it on speakers. for one i can hear bass but tell if treble is  on or off 

2:52 anyone else noticed that ?

The best possible combination is piezoelectric speaker for highest tones, tweeter for high and mid tones, woofer for mid tones and punch bass (do not use this for less than 120hz or it will struggle with produce good two way sound - low and mid. Keep in mid that this isnt the true mid tone speaker) and of course subwoofer with subsonic filter for cut everything below 20hz. It has to work from MAX 120hz to preferable 20hz.

Technically, a speaker is only a subwoofer if it produces frequencies below 20 Hz at a reasonable volume.

2:32
😃😃

More peppers Linus tech?!!! XD

LOL!

I wanted to see him eating durian

LOL Linus I can't stop laughing

Hey Linus, can you make a video on " Difference between neodymium vs normal speakers" pros and cons of both, i'm not able to find anything till now.

His other channel is linustechtips

I thought tomatoes were red... Then I saw Linus.

You are crazy :D

Frick this is hilarious!  I just stumbled upon this video as well which is neat, but it looks like you're not going to make it through that ghost pepper!!  Lmao!

2:52 holy fuck my subwoofer just shook the entire house

I "liked" for the pepper.

I want to see Linus go on Hot Pepper Gaming.

Did you just grunt like Tim Allen?
Wish you talked about HLCD

peppers in an antistatic bag?

Josh from Fractal must have been laughing so hard right now lol

"ohshitohsitohshit thats hot gimme a CPU Cooler"

men a glass of water fasts
jejejeje

a like for you for having the guts to eat that

What hertz was the fart at?

Am I the only one who heard 
that drop at 2:52 ??

Stereo types

Nope. Our headphones are good mate

He just had to add the fart noise. Well Done...

I'm sorry,  did Fractal just try to assassinate Linus?! 

What speakers are those? 2:17

So why didn't you talk about RIBBON Tweeters? 

LOL but me.. using 2 way speakers only as subwoofer, is it good?

first enjoyable sponsor :)

ouch thats gotta hurt

hiyaaan hiyaaan

wrong! The 'woofer' you were chowing is the mid range ! So on a speaker tower it have the tweeter, the mid range and the woofer.

I don't even own any speakers... I just own headphones.

Apple watch on his wrist

lol sqiurrellex

That looked painful hahahaha gg lmao

Hahahaha you should never have eaten that pepper.

lol

Linus! Can you PLEASE make a comparison once and for all about what big differences are between DLP and LCD Projectors!? I am really stuck as to which type of projector has the least amount of input lag as possible (for gaming of course). Can you please settle this?

lol

,Paper Woofers and Paper Mids  with silk dome tweeters are the best sounding but not the loudest, For Subwoofers Polypropelene or other Synthetic materials are the best

Linus, make a video building a pc that is also a subwoofer box.

Who's editing these videos? 

 Fractal Design please sponsor more videos 

I am here 11 March 2020

GO FRACTAL

"like if you liked" damn right I will.

More FD sponsored vids :D! lol

Nagas = Pain fair play for giving it a go Linus.

0:37 MY EARS

i wanted more hickup i laugh so hard

thanks fracta design you killed linus !!! says in a sarcastic voice

The picture of the speaker you used isn't very accurate. That speaker had the Tweeter, a mid-range and woofer. There was no subwoofer in there :-)

I liked :) funny

So a tweeter is louder ?

It's amusing how no one argues that humans can only hear above, say 23Hz, as opposed to people arguing that humans can't see above 23 fps.

 Lol his redness
Nfc vs rfid - which is better, hackability, w/e

liked for the pepper

0:36
R.I.P Headphone users

Actually I like the end. hickups LOL. I hope he had good time at toilet.

and forgot full-range (so-called)

He only swallowed a small amount of juice, guys.

0:18 :-P I'm such a 6 year old xD

So headphones have a super speaker that covers all ranges of hz audible by the human race

Humans can only hear above 15hz. Done.

Excuse you, I actually have a 96 civic sponsored by shok industries thank you very much.

Putting a like for the ghost pepper :D

chewed it too long bro, haha

Why eat a ghost pepper on tech quickie when you could do a challenge on Channel super fun

lol, linus got rekt

Ok, it's official, the best part of this segment has to be the Ghost Pepper "challenge!." Now, I'm fairly "immune" to hot chilies, but I stay away from the more radical ones such as the Ghost Chilies; I find them all heat with no taste. And they hurt like all heck. Habaneros tend to be the top of my list for taste AND heat, although that varies. So HATS OFF to "Fractal-Design" for "feeding" Linus this stunt! (Pun intended.) Oh, and of course to linus who "bit" onto the challenge.

The rest of the segment was so-so; not any real detail, and the ones given were quite obvious. And what about mid-range speakers? Just kinda skipped over that. And the avg person's hearing takes a sharp dive at around 16KH, not 20K.

So there're my comments. I'd write more but I feel obligated now to dive into some Fractal-Design HW and buy something. THOSE FOLKS DESERVE IT..! :)

This is Linus tech tips isn’t it

D'awwww he's so cute like that!! :) Alright Fractal now go for the Carolina Reaper an then the Chilean Death Pepper. :P

Dude, milk. Milk!

0:37 RIP headphone users

I was looking for a video about how subs. Make sound to see if inverting em would make it deeper but now I’m just watching Linus eat a red pepper😂

0:36 fuck the tweeter killed my tweeter I think :(

LOL!!! FUNNY ONE :)

Oh no! How could they do that to Linus?! haha.

wow that chilly was really spicy, i was kind of sorry for you. 

I NEED TO SEE off camera

#LinusDriedGhostPepperTips on Subwoofers, Woofers, and Tweeters. Courtesy of @FractalJosh @FractalDesignNA

try to eat philippine chilli called labuyo ^.^

I think Fractal like trolling Linus lol

fuck, I can feel the pepper in me just by looking at Linus, I feel sorry for him here xD

I think that sponsor doesn't like you much lol

2:48....  Subwoofers    20–200HZ
1:55......  Woofers        200–2,000HZ
0:58.......  Tweeters     2,000–20,000HZ

alpine sponsored 98 civic :D

Should have at least gone into crossovers. 

But theen....what are the ones called that have a "hole" in them and act as a subwoofer...!?

LOL that is the best reaction I've to eating a pepper in like ever..!! Keep up the good work and go drink some water :)

linus is the bill nye of youtube

You also need an HPF with a specific drivers for mid(woofer) and high speakers, and a LPF for the sub-woofer. if you connect all the speakers  directly to the source they will sound pretty bad

Linus, You're Crazy!  I hope you had a gallon of milk ready and waiting.

:salivates for a while, then goes to the cellar to have some pickled cayenne:
what?, its all i have T.T .

He didn't say "BUT...." in this video

lmao holly shit man

Poor Linus

Poor Linus

I wonder when he's going to go through puberty and get his grown up voice. lol

I liked for peppers.

The silence of doom......... 

"When sub woofers are not configured to overpower everything else" ... Me

Hahahahahahaha... Canadians eating pepper... That one gets me every time!

Did u know that... Candy in México is hotter than those?

I feel like linus is using CGI on his head sometimes. His 2 toned neck and face is making it rather difficult to focus on the actual video and info

Last part was funny, i was expecting a visual effect but Linus was realy turning red. ;-) Now i am wondering, Linus named only 3 speakers but left out the midrange speaker. How about that one because they are used in 3 way speaker systems.

Poor Linus, drink milk or beer if you can;t handle "hot" peppers!

aahhhhhhh don't eat the pepper

Poor Linus

Can anyone please tell me what is BTR mean

Can you guys recomend me studio monitors for 200€?

HAHAHAHA! 

I couldn't finish watching this video and finish eating. Good info but not a dinner friendly video

everything you buy a fractal design case they have enough money make Linus suffer

+1 like for taking that pepper challenge

I agree that the subwoofers usually have their own enclosures, and should, because it can cause frequency distortion and overall bad sound. I also believe it is correct that the "subwoofer" in the three speaker enclosure is not actually a "subwoofer", but probably something similar. The speaker classifications kind of differ between who you're talking to. Some people say that there are only two, bass and treble, some say that there are 3, bass, midrange and high, and others, like myself like to classify them as I would set them up in most music listening environments, bass, mid-bass, midrange and high. It's not so much as it has to have that many classifications, it's just that when you set up a performance audio system you tend to have four different driver types so as to create a more stable SPL (sound pressure level) on all frequencies and higher volume without clipping or sound distortion. 


Why he sound like he from fitment industries?

why do we as humans always laugh at someone else's pain/discomfort. LMAO

Just a tip for those who want to eat pepper: Do not touch it with the lips, just with your teeth... in fact, if possible, just grab it from the steam.

you forgot that bass is not directional and is also a reason sub woofers can and are placed where ever one wishes

WOW LOL

well i'm mexican and we like spicy things, totally liked that reaction...

I think I just got hiccups from watching Linus having hiccups. Hiccupception confirmed?

then how can i listen with my small earphones?

Let's see a video on a (few) monitor(s) under $300.

Generally: yes, but it depends on baffle size. If a loudspeaker was a point-source treble would also be nondirectional. 

PUT THE REST OF THE END ON CHANNELSUPERFUN!!! I wanna see what happens after...Luke is prob shitting his pants lol.

Hey, I ordered this monitor last night because of its amazing specs for gaming. I was wondering if there is ANY way I can connect my Wii U into this monitor and run it from there.
I didn't buy it primarily for console use, but after spending over $700 on a monitor I wouldn't want to spend more money on a separate one just for console gaming. I wouldn't mind buying additional accessories to make this work.

cinnamon challenge....

lol is that a fucking faze shirt?

All these people be like"why didnt you have yogurt/sourcream with you" you do know there is probably a table offscreen with that right? The people at LMG know its going to be hot, and in fact he said"i shouldnt have watched a video before this"

It is called mid range

so to receive (air) you need holes........who knew

Luke and Linus eat Carolina Reapers on Channel Super Fun. DO IT.

Full pepper challenge epicsode yes I ment epicsode

hey im looking into buying 2 sets of mtx terminator subs so id have 4 12 inch speakers all together at 2ohms each set i know this amp runs 750 watts rms at 2ohms all 4 of the speakers together is 800 watts rms so if i bridge the speakers to the monoamp will i lose power or will it ruin the speakers? or is my best bet trying to find a 2 channel 400 watts rms each?

0:17 I farted at the exact same time, never felt so guilty ;_;

haha best ad

your voice scratch my brain

crazy how this video was made when i was 5 years old😭

5:16 "ashdhdejes- gu- ge- gu- ha-"

^.^ thats why i don't ever eat  things like that :D

wAHAHA best PArt at 5 miNS wahahah

A tweeter is simply person that uses twitter.

I think Fractal didn't like something linus said at some point.

External Desktop GPU on a Notebook plz

1:33 👀

My new woofer covers from 38 to 5000 hz. Where's your God now Linus? But in reality it has a sweet spot from around 60 to 3000 hz, which is still pretty decent.

Hhhh the last part was awesome ! Next time you should be invited to an Indian food contest! lol 

Poor Linus, Josh can really be mean sometimes. But the laughs... you can't beat the laughs xD Sorry, Linus ;-)

Poor linus 


can you send me the rest of those pepper ? 

i hick up when i eat spicy food too its okay :) 

Hilarious!

the only thing i argue is 200 hz for the low pass on the sub. thats real high 75-85hz is perfect

Gr8 8/8

Linus yay :D

dual consensual or coaxil lol i dare you to explain

Carolina reaper pepper anyone?

what about piezo

2023 gang
|
|

Howdy. Earlier it used to be:
Tweeter = high bands
Squaker = mid range
Woofer = low bands
Regards.

Poor Linus :(

Who is putting these stock images in the video? Is he 12 years old?

👍👍👍❤❤

Toxic Biohazard had it correct. You deserve to eat that Ghost Pepper...

Samsung galxy buds have it.

Huh?

Cody Hodgson i set my crossovers to 17-85hz

Cody Hodgson i find 100 is more than enough to piss my the neighbours off lol thats scene in transformers when he shoot the floor lol i think i found the resonance of this building lol

DON'T CRYYYYY!

I thought this guy only caters PC ???

2000hz and above is not always best for tweeters. It is completely dependent on the application, woofer/tweeter, and X/Order.

you've forgot speaker setups!
when in an enclosed room, a set of tweeters/subwoofers and woofers is usually ok. but when in an open space like an outdoor concert you need a "line array" otherwise your sound won't reach very far!!

Hahaha that was some hilarious shit :D

Please stick with computers.  I did find you eating the Ghost pepper hilarious lol.  Looked painful lol

hi linus

poor linus

Poor boy.

dude he turned fucking red

His linus

Fun fact, a true subwoofer will vibrate more if you cut off the airflow while any other speakers will vibrate less

I watched this

Linus do look like Joel (deadmau5) #JustSayin

epic

linus could be worse they could have said a Trinidad scorpion or a Carolina reaper.

HAHAHA 10/10

Tweeters are ut på 3-4 inc. Mids are from 4-8inch, mid-bass is from 10-15inch, and woofers are from idk like 6-32inch.

Hilarious....😂😂😂... nearly lost his life over a pepper. This is why I'll always steer clear from even trying them

fractal, u evil sons of bitches :DDD gj

Those are some huge tweeters, most tweeters I've seen were .5 to 1.25 inches.

rotary subwoofers???

DON'T PAY LINUS ANYTHING FRACTAL! HE DIDN'T SWALLOW IT!

At least you participated you are amazing but looooooooo 

What about earphones?

Don't touch your eyes now...

Who the fuck disliked this video?

Linus you are Fucking red 5:49

👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼

The Subwoofer is not a driver for a standard speaker the subwoofer is a seperate speaker the driver that produces bass is the the woofer

way to step up and be a man linus !

I've just started folding and noticed that even my modest 750TI crushes my xeon E3 1270 (I7 2600). So I'm wondering if you could do a video on how/why gpus have so much more computing power than cpus for folding/mining for the same price/power.

Would've been an awesome pun if u titled this video "stereo types".

5:10  LMAO   been there, done that    when I spent THREE months in India.....suffer or starve!

Where do you find these cheesy pictures. lol

Bag End subwoofer down to 7htrz check them out

You done fucked up dude lol

😆 alpine sponsored 98 civic

Subwoofer 20-200hz then why my sub can go to 10hz?

I feel so connected to you! Hiccups when the spice hits! :D You make great videos, Linus! I really appreciate your work!

subwoofers are the best, change my mind. I'll wait. Sips Tea

I'll like and subscribe just to see you eat different peppers challenge.

BASS(Davie504)

after watching this video, im out to buy my ass wipes!

I swear, Fractal Design's probably gonna get me to buy stuff from them simply from all the suffering they put Linus through........Actually, I think my next rig, whenever I build it, will use a FD case because of this video. xD

hehe bass you say :)....... (my name)

0:36 You raped my ears with the bird tweeting. Please warn headphone users next time :D

DUDE... LINUS.EXE IS *hik*..... R.I.P linus... XP

that made me uncomfortable

poor you.

By the way Linus, my headphones are really trebly and i suggest that you low pass filter your voice, at 16-20khz because your mic picks up high frequencies that do really sound harsh , not kidding, it would be a lot easier for me to listen to you at quite high volumes if you did that. You can't really hear frequencies from 16 to 20khz but it eliminates a lot of harshness that makes music or a recording hard to listen to, Maybe it's just my senn headphones but that would be cool if you did that

EAT MORE PEPPERS!!!

Midrange?

0:37  ow >_<

Jesus, Linus. Hope you survived the pepper attack. Really cruel from Fractal Design :D

Next time Linus, you should try the U.K.'s hottest pepper (Scotch Bonnet), or you could try the worlds hottest pepper which is Carolina Reaper (if you thought the Ghost Pepper that was hot, you should try that one)

its tweeter>MID RANGE> subwoffer.

Squirrellex is my name in steam XDDDD

i cringed at that coz ive eaten ghost chillis really fuxin hot ouchies

That was kinda mean for fractal-design <.< Anyways Good job Linus :)

Dead at 0:18

I get this too. I have a really shitty headset though so I doubt it's due to your Sennheisers'.

wow that face

AHAHAHA

your voice use my tweeter only

hate to be that guy but several big mistakes in this vid. the one i couldnt ignore is they arent strategicly placed holes in fact the only thing strategic about them is making sure they dont interfere with the sub mounting in the box. 2nd they are ports not holes, they are tuned to a specific frequency based on overall internal volume. you gain 3db when using a ported or vented enclosure opposed to a sealed. 3db is twice as loud. fun fact: when in use a ported or vented enclosure has more pressure inside than a sealed enclosure because the port/vent forces air in and out acting as another driver

who watchin this in 2025

damn so i got alll 3 kinds in my logitech g35 ? :D

4:50 virgins first time

Sorry Linus, but that mid range speaker is not a woofer. It is a mid ranged speaker meant for vocals. And that subwoofer is not that but in fact a woofer. A subwoofer is usually stand alone and covers much lower than a typical speaker cabinet. Also, tweeters are actually not very often dynamic drivers as you say. That was much more common back in the day. Nowadays, especially on professional equipment, compression drivers with horns are much more common, and more effective.

Linus got #REKT M9!!!1!

AAaaaaaaaaaAAHAHAAA best Vid ever !!

I feel obligated to buy an R5 over the H440 now...

We South Asians are experts in eating chillies, you should have asked someone. I really enjoyed the laugh.

I have a A10 3.4ghz processor 12 gb ram (not so good hdd) less than 7200 rpm, startup does take a while. Windows 8, raedon 7470 really shitty gpu 1400mhz or something. So say i wanted to play ark 1080p 60fps med-high what would i need to uppgrade? The whole thing or? Also my motherboard is really shitty.

Bye!  😂

Any other bassheads here🤣

Ahh thats hot, THATS HOT!

Problem with pepper? Milk, cheeese or another protein.

LinusTechTips You should do a Techquickie on powered subwoofers versus passive subwoofers and what are the pros and cons of each cause sony puts passive subwoofers on their home theater in a box systems and the result is less bass which leads to a much weaker punch (in my opinion) in say like an explosion in an action flick or a video game or does not bring out the bass enough in like say your favorite top 40 music (I cant believe you listen to that music Linus. You really should listen carefully to the lyrics in the tracks and you woul realize how disgusting some of the lyrics really are but to each his or her own) and when it comes to a powered subwoofer you get more low end punch better for music and movies and video games (the one that comes on the JBL Cinema BD 300 is powered and the difference is night and day the one on the JBL souds WAY better than the on on my outgoing sony 5.1 system which i am looking to sell) and I watched Guardians Of The Galaxy on it (great movie by the way, highly recommend all you guys over at Linus Tech Tips to go watch it if any of you have not as of yet)and the puch it delivered  in all the explosions amd low rumbling sound effects was way more accurate than what a passive subwoofer could deliver and in music it much more accurately produces the bass frequences and overall brings up the sound quality in each track (i am more of an electronic music guy) and that is what makes me happy and i bet you are much happier with a powered sub woofer cause you know it is going to produce enough bass to make your music games and movies sound great.

Why do you need a subwoofer when the woofer covers the frequencies?

fractal design U too mean ... why U do this?

🙋🏻‍♀️

The same reason you want a dedicated tweeter: for more clarity.

Thats why i chose a jbl charge 5 instead of the four
The charge 4 has one speaker trying to push out all those frequencies while the charge 5 has a separate woofer and tweeter it sounds alot better

677 Ariane Shoal

Clearly he don't understand what is the function of a speaker box.

LinusTurnUpTips

I kicked my subwoofer it made the most screeching and painful noise ever even tho it was turned off had to unplug it, too scared to use it 

Ok, I want "Fractal" Josh to do some weird stuff... the weirder the better! Turnabout is FAIR PLAY! As Billie Jean said: "Fair is fair!".

SQUIRRELEX  DOVE-STEP

You are a Tweeter.

Tweeters? Twitter?

linus fard

Hello

Who's watching this in 2025?

Who's watching this in 2025?

0:19 wtf

Woofers are just the same as a subwoofer except they generally go higher up in the bass range. A real subwoofer only plays freq. beneeth 125-150Hz... So they are not "below a woofer" but plays along with it and should be adjusted to take over where the woofer starts loosing volume in the deepes range for a perfect integration into the system. And also woth noting is that a sub in a PC speaker system, Bose, Sonos, soundbars erc is really not a subwoofer but a bass module since it goes alot further up in frequency to match the smaller mids and highs.

What a faut..

It's best to have as few types of drivers as possible. It's easily audible when a sound of a bridge frequency (ex. 2000Hz, that can either be rendered by the mid-range speaker or by the tweeter) is played by one driver or another.
So, judging that the human ear can hear from 40Hz to 20000Hz, and the body can feel from about 20-30Hz, it is reasonable to suggest that having speakers that render the 30-20k range with ~100db fidelity.
In this case, a woofer that renders 30-2000Hz + a tweeter is a very good way to go.

Subwoofers are often overkill, and spoil the quality of the music, if you already have a speaker system capable of offering as low as 30Hz at high fidelity.

Bigger Dog 😂 Subwoofer

is that hot or what jejejeje?
men I wonder if I can put a tweeter in an open enclosure or let say out of a box frame to my home theater

Why would you do that to yourself, dude?

It all depends what you do with the subwoofer. If you have multiple, high wattage subwoofers, it is going to be very over kill. But if you have a low wattage subwoofer, in a sealed enclosure, it is a very important piece to music.

When I hit my kick drum at a good venue there is nothing better than a sub kicking everyone in the chest. Sub is life. Sub is love.

I don't get it why ppl love to see others suffering. Fractal Design make good stuff but rly bad jokes! I deslike all sponsored by Fractal Design!

Guys I love your channel but keep to pc's

GG

linus?

Get some water or milk

30000hz 

cant get over the voice. terrible SPOKESMAN FOR ANYTHING!

I think it was dangerous for your health and still it will be literally a pain in the ass... 

I'm sorry that you had to eat that pepper, it was a good video. I would like to not watch you again being hurt.

Linus is in FaZe clan

Who's watching in 2025

Well this just proved I have a shitty, shitty, Home Theater Surround Sound System.

What?

Is he speaking fast or is it just me ?

Only liked because you were in PAIN! Hooyah!

Fractal Designs tortured Linus!!!!!!!!

Rip

For some reason whenever I see someone holding ghostpepper in a video or anything spicy really my mouth is like a waterfall, damn that's annoying,

drink MILK!

Wtf Linus Tech?

yo

20Hz to 20KHz, right?

lol, Subscribe, Done.. LOL

Its 2025 now

ok

linus... drink mild and eat tomato.  that will help

Seriously ....a subwoofer is a woofer ...but a woofer is a subwoofer ....man you should revise

You actually forgot another main type speaker that is in every audio system called a full range driver. They produce 20 to 20000 hrz. So yeah. Didn’t wanna be that guy but here I am. Pissed off you didn’t include a full range in the list.

13000 like

LOL brings up the furry fandom and get the ghost pepper challenge

I thought Linus was joking about eating the peppers but I can't believe he did it. Ghost peppers are some of the hottest on the planet and he was probably in pain for hours. That was a pretty extreme and "uncool" thing to do to him. It's probably not healthy for your stomach either. Don't make Linus do stuff like that again!

I have a subwaffle.

Whatever you do, DO NOT GRAB YOUR NUTS AFTER HANDLING PEPPERS.  And ladies, I ain't talking bout pistachios.

😱😨😰💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀

Fast as possible is no longer fast as possible... could easily explain this in adequate understandable detail in half the time... and im crap at explaining things.

I liked the video because of the talk about the speakers..
But i think it is dishonorable of fractal design to humiliate you..

Krk rokit 10 or Yamaha hs8?  What have most bass? I want your opinions

.exe

you're such a cutie when you're eating something spicy ♥

I need a speaker that produce 0Hz... I NEED IT !!!!

+AndreyGaming Maudio BX8 D2/Carbon cheaper than both amazingly low bass

That's called DC where you connect a battery to a speaker

*****
it heats up the voice coil and smokes and bye bye speaker

Haha... I was counting from 5 to 0 and then it happend. The fire came... Funny that he has to do such stuff for free things. Maybe next time a 100 year old egg? 

I don't enjoy watching people put a core raw ingredient of a Pepper Spray non-lethal weapon in their mouth. I was given some Green Bell peppers once that had been crossed with hot cousins. They looked delicious but getting the juice on my hands made my fingers ache for an entire day. They were inedible.

... the end of the video was the most annoing thing ever...

Stick to computers linus. He probably uses logitech for his speakers.

wow, i felt bad for you when i saw your face at the end of the video... end yet i can't wait for the next stupid challenge from fractal... guess i'm just a bad person D:

0:18 DUDE LOL I FARTED AT THAT EXACT TIME iM NOT LYING

hahahaha... never do it again... even Ghost are afraid to eat those... this why it have this kind of name(Ghost Paper)...

You should eq your voice. 6am. Smh. It’s a lot to take in.

Of the subwoofer is not bellow the woofer is it a subwoofer🤔

0:18 thank me later

MID RANGE NOT WOOFER!

watch my video on it lol

That's quite the abusive sponsor. I'll be sure to avoid them.

wait so does my computers sound card chip turn the digital signals to analog or is it the speakers? im confused

And what if you need to go below 20hz. It would be awsome for lion roar.

Roflmfao :D

Subwoofers = 1hz to 80Hz
Midbass Woofer = 80Hz to 500Hz
Midrange 500Hz to 8Khz
Tweeters 8Khz to 20Khz
Super Tweeters 20Khz above.
(Varies obviously from brand and capabilities)
Fullrange Drivers = 20Hz to 20Khz give or take.

dont drink water

LOL 
Woofer 20 - 2000 HZ
Subwoofer 20 - 200 HZ
LOLOLOLOLOLOL

They really shouldn't make Linus do mean stuff to hurt himself. Strong spices can actually erode the protective lining of our alimentary canal and can cause discomfort for days, if not stomach ulcers. I mean making Linus do silly stuff is okay, but this is just pushing it.

or poison.

Just a joke

Sound cards take the digital signals and convert them to analog signals, and you can tell as their outputs/inputs are usually 3.5mm jacks, which are for stereo analog signals.  A digital sound source can be carried through an optical cable (The red glowing square connectors on various pieces of audio equipment) or through an data transfer protocol, such as USB, as the music is simply digital data.

Your sound card may have both digital and analog outputs. The 3.5mm jack, for instance, is analog. An SPDIF output, usually an optical signal, is digital.
Either way, some device must convert the signal to analog before it hits your speaker. This is called a DAC; and that analog signal must be of sufficient amplitude to drive your speaker; this is achieved by an amplifier.
You don't typically but just a DAC or just an amplifier; most sound cards, and almost all home theater receivers have both inside.
Your speakers convert an analog electrical signal to a mechanical signal (sound).

I have a basic speaker set with two speakers and a bass sub I believe ...so the dac is inside my computer and the amp is probably in the speaker ? I have a laptop btw with integrated audio and the headphone and mic jacks ...ive opened it up one time ..the 'sound Chip' looks tiny 

D Jay If you're using the headphone out, that means the DAC is onboard the laptop, because 3.5mm jacks are analog only.

u cant hear under 20hz.

HailgodMC but feel.

Samuel Maier I feel you

HailgodMC the feel is awsome and frigthing at the same time. i heard a loud lion roar once, and trust me it goes trough the bone. and it was only a zoo lion. and never heard something like that trough my speakers(even with a bigg ass subwoofer.

in epic ness 
real lion>smoug(hobbig) in theater. 
and that is thanks to the sub 20hz sound. 
its way you dont be afraid of a lion roar on tv. but you get chils in real life

in short sub 20hz matters

Its Wooofers not wufffers

Are you alive

he ded.

500 watts RMS (1500 watts peak)

Did he dieded?

I know one sound frequency it would be nice not to be able to hear: the incessant nagging of my ridiculous-ly beautiful wife, who has just walked in the room.

Can you do a video on active versus passive subwoofers and the advantages versus disadvantages of both?

er mer gerd you didn't mention mids wtf!! 350 no scope Doritos mtn dew!!!!!@!!!!@!@!!@!

Darude - Sandstorm

Don't understimate ghost chillies..it's more strong when you eat raw.theres nothing like this..only ppl eating it knows it .you are sure to cry

Seeing Linus 2014 to Linus 2021... Eating ghost pepper challenge! Re-match!!! You always want/need new content! See if Linus has become man enough, 7 years later!!! LMAO - I think a fellow management challenge in order... even the playing field. Loosers have to fix/cleanup/complete a massive mess/invention/nightmare build, while the winners get to vacate/game together/etc..!

30% of the video is an add, wtf

🗿👍

macbooks have subwoofer, pfff...  bullshit

ohhh  you screwed up on the pepper...  hope you lived  ;)

Drink milk!!!

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm    I grew up with tweeters, mid-range (what you call a woofer) and woofers..........Subwoofers are a different thing; usually mono and broaching sub-sonic.........see 3:29

After this failure to eat peeper, I wonder if Indian people (and probably Chinese people from Sichuan province) would think that Linus is unworthy of their consideration or respect. Lol

Sub Woofer OP plz nerf

pwned

k.

#sorry

I drank ghost pepper ketchup one time in a restaurant because my bro's wouldn't do it and were acting like pussies about it. =P

2025 ..😅

3:21 this almost looks ai generated... but thos is a ten y/o vid
Ik its not but ai has that shine to it sometimes

hic ....

Ok here goes i have to take issue with your explanation of drive units, in my opinion i think you have made a bit of an error let me explain why i think you have made an error. "Tweeters" ok desighned to produce high frequency sounds " a bird tweet tweet " 2. Next drive unit  down the chain is the "Mid Range" unit and as its name say's it is designed to handle most of the mid range frequencies 3. The third unit being the "Bass unit" which by definition is designed to handle the lower frequencies. These three drive units have been the basic combination of drive units configured with in a cabinet to form what we call "Speakers".  While you dont have to use all three drive units in order to make a pair of speakers there are also two way systems and fourway systems by the use of a driver above a tweeter called a "super high frequency driver" or an "ABR" Auxilliary Bass Radiator. The use of an extra low frequency drive unit or "Sub" has only become popular over recent years , the so called "Subs" that are now so popular are a newish desire.

Most people will be very happy to enjoy and use the traditional pair of speakers as we know them without the need for the "Sub" speaker, this is not a definative explanation of the most used drive units how ever i think it gives better clarity, let's not also forget the likes of Tannoy who are world leaders in using  what looks like a single drive unit but is actually two units in one with the high frequency unit situated down the center at the rear in a compression driver format. lets not forget that all the drive units in the world are no good if a suitable cross over network is not used in order to seperate out all the different frequencies and send them to the correct drive units.

I’m not gay but sir you are cute.

Your voice sounds like a girl - or Mike Tyson - your choice

Oh my days, your face became so red, why did ya eat it with having milk,yogurt next to you. It's not a challenge you know...:)

rediculous video at last...🤔🤔

Not that anyone cares, But im saying it anyways.

We have 4 Pioneer Champion Pro subs in the trunk.. Very fucking loud. Voted #1 subs of 2015 o.O Yeah.. ok bye

Why are they called speakers when they can't even speak? #illuminati

2025🎉🎉🎉

Meee 2025

did you get paid enough for that?

The guys at Fractal designs are mean :(

Linus dont do audio videos.  Midrange drivers are not woofers  Stay with computers

Nooo Dont do it

2025........

Speakers are pretty much useless if you live in an apartment. You can't enjoy good sound with neighbors being only a thin wall away.

Great headphones are much better. 

Shanghai Alice I sure hope so. That was painful to watch.

Shanghai Alice I sure hope so. That was painful to watch.

Shanghai Alice he got many sponsored item from fractal.. so yeah

HAHA. I'd be surprised if I could hear a woofer that can produce 20Hz Or even 40Hz. Well, exept the stufio monitors. Those are good.

The strategically placed holes thing is WRONG.
Look it up: bass reflex port. That's the technical term and the function it serves is to enlarge the frequency range of the woofer by creating a tube with a lower ground resonance then the speaker itself has.
This is my understanding and it's probably not 100% accurate, but bass reflex ports are NOT for supplying air.

You'd rather have an airtight speaker than one with a "regular" hole in it, because the enclosement will work better that way. The hole is actually more like a tunnel with a very specific length and diameter designed for the enclosure and speaker to have these results. This involves complicated physics for designing and I would discourage people building their own speakers to cut holes in their enclosure.

I understand this video was made to be as fast as possible and that things need to be oversimplified to keep it short, but this was just wrong information.

It's not that hard to do a bit of research and this is basic speaker knowledge.

why is this video so dirty? The producer needs to stop watching porn

2025

2025

Unsub if you don't consume the pepper!

Audiophiles, be quiet.  This video wasn't for you.  We get it, It was a Mid-range and the bottom one was a Woofer.  Enough already.

Linus' voice falls entirely within a Tweeter's frequency range.

I was quite excited to have something I could send people to help show them the difference between a woofer and a sub, and then you called the mid driver a woofer and called the woofer a subwoofer,  encouraging the very confusion I hoped to battle with your vid. SUBWOOFERS ARE ALMOST NEVER CONTAINED IN THE SPEAKER CAB! THEY ARE STAND ALONE UNITS DESIGNED FOR THE 20-100 RANGE! I feel like you may know this... so, go fix your damn graphics and stop spreading confusion!

His hand gestures are SO distracting. 

Nope didn't eat pepper unsubbing disliking every video I ever liked and forgetting about you for eternity. 

Ha, ha That’s not even a tweeter on the left. Thumbs down !

the worst explanation for the use for an enclosure.what is he even talking about??the reason you but a woofer in an enclosure is to give you bass, in free air the back waves cancel out the front waves so you get very little bass.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE A SUBWOOFER, YOU ARE LITERALLY NOT WORTHY OF THE TITLE BASS JUNKIE! 



THAT'S AN INSULT TO US ACTUAL BASS JUNKIES, that listen to super DEEP, SUB-BASS edm, techno, and trance.

Don't like fast music. Love classic, acoustic and audiophile vocal and acid jazz.

Anything > Cerwin Vega

subwoofers are overrated.

Sorry, but this is one of your worst "as fast as possible" videos so far. It's highly inaccurate and will probably cause a lot of people to walk around saying incorrect things about speakers and if you try to call them out on it, they'll smugly say "Nuh-uh! Linus explained this, so I know it's correct".

very annoying

I usually enjoy Fractal Josh's embarrassments (my milkshake brings...), but his one was simply cruel. It hurt me to see Linus suffer. It hurts me to see anyone suffer. 

Fractal Design, no thanks. I will be checking out that Corsair case.

Vlad Lucian Yeah, he's implying that subwoofers take over from woofers only below 20Hz; in my system my sub (only an 8" in a ported box) already rolls off below 30Hz and works up to 80Hz and my 6" woofers in sealed enclosures effectively (though they are not high passed) play from 80Hz to 4KHz and my 2" tweeters play from 4KHz to 20KHz

+EpicEverythingDude75 That's what he meant
Anything > Cerwin vega means anything is better than cerwin vega

+Martin Kjenna Cerwin Vega is shit and they have been known to be the most inaccurate sounding speakers in the world. If you love farts then those are the speakers for you. They have TERRIBLE sound and they do not sound natural at all.

Exactly

Jason Ciputra I finally noticed that LOL. Anyone who thinks Cerwin Vega actually sounds good needs to get their ears checked

+EpicEverythingDude75 I have a cerwin vega and a QSC and  I took 240v to the cerwin and hooked the 1kw QSC to my amp and best sound ever

NeXTSTORMING No, just no. 

You'd be surprised at the effect they can add, especially in movies. As long as they don't overpower everything else they can sound great and extend your system's bass response well into the low end, nothing that a small woofer could hope to do

Negan 
Not if you wanna
D-D-D-D-DDROP THE BASS!
Ohio catches on fire from OP bass

Garry Perkins but that define r5 though. have one and its so silent and cool

Matthias Van Hecke I know, but I have that whole Christian do-the-right-thing problem. I cannot shop at a Wal-mart for example (dislike how they work with the Chinese government to imprison Christians).

It sickens me to compare Fractal Design to Wal-mart, but this forces me to do so.

Ok a subwoofer contains a woofer. You just called a mid range, a woofer... and full range speakers do not have a “subwoofer” however they can contain multiple woofers. A full range cabinet contains a tweeter and woofer, and the subwoofer is on the floor shaking everything. You deserve to eat those peppers after your wrong speaker facts.

Junk

.................................. you have ab-so-lutely NO idea what you're talking about...
1: the three types that exist: tweeter, midrange and woofer DRIVERS, not "speakers".
2: the sound is divided by a cut off filter, (crossover) [most common: 20/30 Hz to 400 Hz: woofer 400 Hz to 2/4 kHz: midrange. 4 kHz to 20/25 kHz: tweeter] which is build in the speakerhousing. The better speakers use "bi amp" or "tri amp" connectors to accomplish an absolute seperation between the tweeter, midrange and woofer.
3: a "Subwoofer" is a dedicated woofer invented by Bose (which is besides the 901's crap, but that's a sidenote) as a solution for people who do not want huge speakers in their livingroom, and are in contrast of mids and tweeters, Mono for the simple reason that soundwaves below 250/300 Hz are non-directional, simply meaning it's very hard to determine where bass sounds comes from.
4: Bass "needing" a bass port (as you tend to call it "strategic placed holes") is absolute bullcrap and even impossible with high pressure speakerdesigns. 
5: Wheres the explanation for different impedances? I reckon you haven't got the faintest clue besides some made-up pseudoscience answer..
6: Other missed points: Ribbon tweeters? long vs. short voicecoils? electrostatic speakers? Motional Feedback design? measured wattage in RMS / THD / etcetera vs. true powerhandling? insulation? lightweight kevlar drivers vs. paper ones? speakerhousing design vs. soundquality? etcetera etcetera........................ Pfffffffffffff............. srsly dude.. just... go HOME or something.. _ 
Over here we have an expression "schoenmaker hou je bij je leest" meaning: "Let the cobbler stick to his last",  or "As a bear has no tail, for a lion he'll fail."

another LTT "audiophile" video full of misinformation. Where did this guy go to school again?

That has to be the most annoying male voice I've ever heard. God..

Am I the only one that takes tweeters out of speekers🤣🤣🤣

This is Horrible. Fractal Design This is wayyyyy over normal. Please stop the nonsense. 

It's funny that he thinks a woofer plays mid-range.

you forgot mid range....

Linus

Your old channel

