You can use a small NPN transistor with its collector connected to the base of the PNP transistor and a resistor connected between the base of the PNP transistor to the supply voltage. An additional transistor allows microcontrollers to switch NPN transistors that if you find yourself needing to switch the Vcc line instead of the ground line.

Great and precise explanation about npn popularity

I owe you a few beers, man. With your help I eventually might learn what I wasn't able to when I was young (even though always being attracted to electronics & computers...) 🍻

Where were you all this time. I have never understood transistors better than what l have learned in this short video 🎉

More videos please 🙏

Great refresher on NPN vs PNP.  It's been a while for me.

From all the electronic channels I saw on youtube this one is the best. I saw many. Thank you for explaining BJ-transistor.

well, electronics is not so complicated when its explained neatly!! Thank you..

For various technical reasons, it's easier to make an NPN transistor switch faster and consume less power. The underlying reason is that the charge carriers in NPN devices are electrons, while  in PNP devices they're holes.  Electrons have a higher mobility than holes. 

Because it's harder to get the same performance in a PNP as in an NPN, PNP transistors are used mostly in class B amplifiers, in H bridges, and in sensing circuits for which a short to ground must be detected as a fault. Even in these applications, a Sziklai pair is often preferred, with the high power being switched by an NPN transistor with a PNP controlling its base.

Back in the day, PNP's were commoner, because that's what could be made in germanium point-contact transistors. But ever since the advent of silicon, N-channel FETs and NPN transistors have been cheaper, faster, lower-power, and capable of handling more current than comparably-priced complementary devices.  (Excluding anomalies like PMOS memories, which flourished during a brief interval when a process for making NMOS or CMOS ones was not completely developed.) 

In fact, it's arguable that your observation that microcomputer outputs are basically current sinks and it's easier to pull the transistor base to the negative rail - driving the popularity of NPN devices, puts the cart before the horse.  The microprocessors work that way precisely because the transistors do.

Good explanation.keep posting on cricuit analysis

Thanks for answering questions I always wonder about but forget to investigate.  "You may ask yourself" reminds me of the Talking Heads song Once In A Lifetime.

Thank you for helping me understand transistors better than my instructor ever could.

Around 4:19 [paraphrase] whether pnp or npn, emitter connected to power supply and collector connected to load ...... this is such a practical, clear, and useful point made for beginners .... if only all teacher could be so clear..... thank you, best luck on your excellent growing channel.

very easy lesson, thank you so much Sir. From Việt Nam with love

Very good explanation, thank you! Please continue producing videos that break down the components to the most useful information a hobbyist could need!

Thanx. Very clear description. You have a new subscriber. 😊

Thank you.
I need a similar video for mosfets N and P channels. Please.

Excellent tutorial! As always!

Nice explanation!

Creative video, thanks :)

I prefer FET's for switch and then do not have to worry about base current since the FET is voltage driven.

Exactly what i was going to write. This is little more expensive and complicated, but if you really need to use the pnp with microcontroller is your only option for higher voltages than the microcontroller uses.

That is right 👍

Good tip! Thanks

This was also common in the early days of transistor amplifiers when the only reliable high powered devices where NPN types

Thank you dude, I am so glad to hear that.  🍻🍻🍻🍻

I feel exactly the same. If I'd had someone explain electronics like this at college 36 years ago I'd of had a far better understanding.

Awesome, new videos are coming soon 😉

I should have figured this out but I did not. Thanks.

Thank you for watching me 😊

I have watched more than 50 videos on bipolars ,all trying to impress me with maths lol. You made 2 picture of 2 million words and examined simple what I was looking for.thanks you got a new subscriber.

Glad you think so!

Thx so much for taking the time to post that, i found it clear, really informative and well explained

Thank you for sharing these valuable information 👍

I think this is the right answer.  I was told that back in the day it was always a much bigger challenge to make pnp transistors that matched their complementary npn counterparts.  They were larger, a bit more fragile and often wouldn't quite be a match for npn.  I think nowadays this is less the case but npn is already king.  Then simplicity comes into it, its just easier to arrange a low side switch, if you used pnp you'll need a npn to switch it because the high side voltage will usually be beyond the device voltage you're driving it from, whereas for low side they can share the same ground even though the collector can go to full supply.

Nowhere in any transister data sheets say that NPN is faster. You must be an insider. Thanks for knowledge.

cart not card ... but thank you, that's very informative

 @tedbastwock3810  typo fixed, thanks

I have also found in other sources about charge carrier that make NPN faster, but I have found no evidence in any data sheet nor any experimental circuit that show exactly that... 
This is still a myth for me.

Thank you, I will

Happy to hear that 😃
Keep watching, there are more useful content like this 👍

Glad the video was helpful. 😃

You are most welcome ❤️❤️

Thanks, will do!

Welcome to my channel 😊

​ @elewizard ​can you explain this???
Why the input switch is always kept at the base side??
Can not it be keep at the power side of the collector with base and emitter keeping constant???
Or, can not it be kept at the emitter side with base and collector side constant???
Please explain.

Noted👍

Thank you! Cheers!

Glad you think so!

Glad you liked it!

Merci pour ces rappels.

Thank you so much, this knowledge didn't want to go into my brain at school but you made me actually understand how to use transistors ❤

Highly informative, Thanks

Your video content is excellently and  clearly articulated.  It is a pleasure to watch them even if I already know the subject - because it is educational to watch how you develop your ideas and succinctly yet comprehensively cover the topics.  Thanks for all of your efforts.

Hap gibi bilgiler . Teşekkürler.. Türkçe yazdım çünkü bu kanala  denk gelen kardeşlerimiz takipte kalsın çok pratik ve pek değinilmeyen konulara değiniyor bu usta...

Thank you for your great video.

Thank you for explaining the basic application and correct side of currants. I'm trying to wrap my mind around a broader relationship of components so I can design my own guitar pedal.

thanks for your clear explanation.

Great explanation.

Great video thank you I am member too

Very nice  video ❤

Wow, thank you a lot ❤❤

Excellent..!

Thanks for the excellent video and presentation

very clear explanation

thanks from sweden

Another side-effect of using a PNP which may be annoying for some applications:

When you first turn a circuit board from OFF to ON, the driver for the PNP base is likely to be at ground when you first power-up.  Thus, as the power supply voltage rises, this can turn ON the PNP for a short time until the base driver gets up to its final voltage.  This means the transistor is ON for a short period during turn-on.  This can cause a "popping" sound if this is an enable for an audio circuit, or could cause a glitch in an important signal - say a microprocessor reset line if if is used there.

✔️

Thanks my dear !

Good info bro

Thank you so much  ❤️❤️❤️

Wow, thank you ❤️ your comment put a big smile on my face ☺

You're welcome

Glad you think so. Yeah I am spending lots of time on arranging things contents in my videos

Teşekurler 🇹🇷

Thank you for watching the video and being a part of the community ❤️

Glad it was helpful!

Glad it was helpful!

Glad you think so!👍

Welcome aboard!

Thanks 🤗

You're welcome 😊

Many thanks!🥳

Glad it was helpful!🫡

Glad you think so!

Thank you for watching my Swedes   friend ❤️

You are welcome!

Glad you liked it

You probably can't use the NPN transistor directly to turn the motor on/off anyway due to power consumption from the base so I think you need two transistors anyway.
That is way a MOSFET is preferable as you described in another video 🙂.

Hey sir thanks

4:03 what is going to happen if I connect in the opposite mode? collector to power supply and emitter to load? It should work because current flows along the wires of the entire circuit anyway, right?

excellent

Anyone else having Blues Clues flash backs?   Any way Great video. They are really helpful.

Davis Kevin Martin Helen Moore Melissa

🌺🌹 you are a great 👍 🌺🌹🌹🌺

Im trying to find the answer to using one common to connect to several unknown transistors. I assume they would be of NPN type. 
I then assume to use only one wire as common, that is, the positive side of the power supply to my load/digital input.
(Im not sure why they show both plus and negative signals of ever signal)

Jackson Betty Jones Edward Martin Thomas

خیلی خوب توضیح میدین
وب سایت هم دارین؟

You could use a transistor as a clipper on your microphone to remove the popping sounds...

I'm looking at old germanium transistor circuits. And they're almost all pnp. Why didn't they think of using npn then, since it's so much easier?

I need to trigger an ecu with arduino with a 12v positive load. I don't have enough space to use a 4 channel relay. Can I trigger Tip217 transistor with BC547? 
The ecu will not draw much current, but since I am not sure, I am thinking of choosing Tip217. I plan to line up type 217s side by side, give 12v to their middle pins (collector) and get the output from the emitter according to the Arduino trigger. Can this system work stably for a long time? 
Should I give 12v or 5v to bc547 to trigger type 217?

A question of "why" still remains. Why does the NPN only require 0v - 0.7v for its operation and why does the PNP require 11.3v - 12v for its operation? All I know so far from the video is that those are the requirements for the motor to turn on and off.

Is it mail time?

what is your name and country

NPN on positive side of circuit as switch. Not ground. 

Also, don't ever switch ground/negative. You leave circuit energized to power voltage. One 'screw' up and you fry your circuit by grounding.

When you switch power side of circuit, the circuit can be worked on and not shorted. Of course, you wear grounding strap.

Please explain...

​can you explain this???
Why the input switch is always kept at the base side??
Can not it be keep at the power side of the collector with base and emitter keeping constant???
Or, can not it be kept at the emitter side with base and collector side constant???
Please explain.

Is there a reason why loads on NPN cant be used on the Emiter side?

What is the meaning of the statement made at 4:32 .
That the non transistor are used to switching ground of the load .
It’s not cleared to me . Can you please elaborate?? That would be really helpful.

Darlington pair transistors like tip122 are available for such applications with hfe about 1000. We can use Mosfet or darlington pair transistors 😉

So nice of you

Thank you! Cheers!

Glad it was helpful

Thank you! 😃

Thank you amir. No I haven't website yet

Yes, the microphones quality was really low 😅

In old circuits the logic was opposite of the logic nowadays. 
I mean in that days, positive voltage (VCC) was used as common voltage. So, in those days,  using PNP was much easier and more common 👍

Also a PNP requires 0.7v but in reverse polarity. I mean they need 0.7v lower than the Vcc, say 12v.
So they trigger on 11.3v which is 0.7v away from 12v 🤪

NPN is used to switch ground for a part or portion of the circuit, not the whole circuit.
For example, we use an NPN to switch ground side of a relay, a DC motor, etc.

It allows you to control the transistor with 5 Volts while switching a circuit that's powered by 12 Volts, or even higher, as long as they both share a common ground.  Since we affirm signals with positive voltage, and turn off signals with ground voltage, it's more intuitive in a design to have a transistor base controlled where 5V to ground opens the transistor, and 0V closes the transistor.  Of course, there is an implied base resistor to limit the current feeding the transistor.

Because it's base-to-emitter voltage, that determines whether an NPN transistor opens or closes.  If the load is on the emitter side, the emitter voltage is a moving target, and you can't guarantee that a given base voltage will produce the necessary base-to-emitter voltage difference.

it just means that the switching occurs in the ground of the load, by ground he means segment of the circuit where the voltage is lower or zero the negative side of the power supply

my name is David from in Cleveland Ohio

agha shoma torki ehyanan ? ;)

please introduce yourself
where are you from (i mean which city) and what is your name
if it's possible

so if we only had NPN transistors in this world - would it be sufficient?

are there applications where PNP transistors are required & cannot be substituted?

The NPN was cheaper to manufacture than PNP also.

I heard NPN transistors are easier for manufacturers to make

4:26 You state "NPN is for switching ground". That's a mistake. NPN is for switching relative to the positive rail. PNP is for switching relative to the negative rail. You've made the mistaken assumption that ground is always the negative rail, but that's merely a convention brought about because NPN transistors became more common when silicon took over from germanium. You can ground either rail and the circuit works the same.

I'm old enough to remember when germanium transistors like OC71 were the commonest, and they were PNP because that was the easiest type to fabricate from Ge. In those days, the positive rail was ground. My first car was positive ground (i.e. the chassis was connected to battery positive) because the radio had germanium transistors. When silicon transistors became more freely available, the easiest type to fabricate was NPN, so we grounded the negative rail. When I upgraded my car's radio to one that used Si transistors, I had to swap the earthing so that the chassis was connected to battery negative, which involved re-magnetising the dynamo's permanent magnet in the opposite direction.


So, you actually have it the wrong way around. Because silicon NPN transistors were easier to fabricate (and had better characteristics), they became more freely and cheaply available and hence were used more often in circuits. The negative ground was a consequence of that.

And I've got some bad news for you. If you ground the positive rail, then your MCU will run from a -3.3V or -5V supply. It will provide 0V to turn off a PNP transistor or more than the -0.7V required to turn it on. You won't be able directly to turn off an NPN transistor switching from the negative rail.

Super explanation!! 👍👍👍👍

My 15 years doubt cleared in just a 6mins video ❤❤❤❤hugs❤❤❤❤🎉🎉🎉🎉

Another disadvantage of using PNP as a switch with microcontroller is that the base current will sink in microcontroller which will most likely damage it.If NPN is use to drive PNP then it can be used with microcontroller and swatch on and off through 5V.Still there is another method of using PNP as a switch with microcontroller is if the load attached to it is either 5V or less..

You are very welcome my friend ❤️❤️❤️

Yes, I am 😉

I am your compatriot 
Ardabil 😉

 @elewizard 
یاشاسین اردبیل
همه ویدیوهاتونو دانلود کردم منتظرم بعدی هستم 👌

Yes, in most cases NPN transistors can be used instead of PNP transistors with a little change in the circuit. But, this may cause non-optimality in the circuit.

 @elewizard  good to know it's interchangeable!  where can I read (or watch!) more about how the choice impacts optimization?

Is it because mass production?

 @elewizard  The NPN has two time less resistance than the PNP and therefore smaller and cheaper to produce.

I don't think so!

Thank you for these facts. You are completely right, but I think you had better mention these points in IEEE, not YouTube. Here is a place for newbies and enthusiasts, not professionals. I have to present information in a simple way so most of my audience can understand. Talking about positive ground does nothing but create confusion for my audience.

​ @elewizard Exactly! I am happy as a clam that I finally understood the practical differences / use cases for NPN & PNP BJTs in circuits, especially in conjunction with MCUs...

I finished a med school 15yrs ago, I have neither time, willpower nor strength to do a MIT masters degree in my 40s... 🙄

So thanks @elewizard once again for doing these vids, they helped me to go a long way in those few last months😀👍

 @elewizard  You should never underestimate your audience. I do agree though that in your presentations, it is fine to aim for a particular level and not complicate beyond that.

However, the comments section is where you can engage with a much broader audience and discuss in greater detail. That allows an opportunity for everyone to learn something new. Thank you for your engagement in the comments -- not every content creator does so well.

Glad you think so!

Wow, really happy to hear it 😊

