I took this subject 35 years ago as a Mechanical Engineering major.  This seems like the first day of class.  Followed by endless days of Laplace Transforms.  On a related topic, most of my career has been in engineering project management.  Control Theory is the single most useful class for future managers.  A larger group of people in an organization subject to various external influences is just another system to optimize.  Engineering control systems is more useful to management than most MBA curriculum

So this is how the missile knows where it is…

its usually the boring engineering classes that doesn’t make you see huge physical phenomena like arcs and lasers that end up being the most useful classes in life

As a PhD, I am a TA for undergraduate control class. I will show them this on the very first day from no on.

That’s my master’s thesis in a nutshell applied to space robotics. My deepest gratitude to you Brian for always helping me in putting things into perspective. This is an excellent overview of what constitutes a control system design for anyone who is interested and just starting out. It’s easy to get lost in the weeds once you start going into the details and each of these blocks is a whole field in themselves but this video does a great job in putting everything together in an intuitive way. I have said this many times before and will say it again - you are an incredible teacher sir! Always a delight to learn from your videos.

They should of lead with this in controls class instead of 1/1+Ts

Thanks! Now I can understand why the missile knows where it is.

I recently started with my masters Robotics at TU Delft, robots dynamics and control is one of my first courses. This video is a great refresher to understand the big picture basics again, I do too much math and programming that I’m zoned in the numbers, you forget what it’s actual about.

Very nicely summed up control theory

I always used to ask my colleagues about where does all this happen ? I can see vibration, physics, thermal transfer and all, but why control engineering ? Where does all of this apply in a machine ? This one video made me realize the importance and gave me everything that I needed to see how important it is. I can´t be more grateful Brian. You´re the man. Thanks a million.

this is 'Sehr gut'. Its an excellent short video for people with no knowledge or full knowledge of the control system. Very beautiful perspective of the control system. It might induce interest in students in this field.

You make the complex look simple, only a genuis can do that . Tank you very much

I wish I knew this channel exist back when I was doing my control theory and it's lab in 2018.

Brian Douglas back on YT. Awesome :D Thank to you, I am really into controls and control theory. I study it by myself, but without your help I wouldnt be able to even start :)

Omg they recruited Brian to do a video for them, this is epic. I learned control from you!

:) economists use control theory. Unwanted disturbances like covid can hit the economy which is a dynamical system. Monetary and Fiscal policy, for example, are controls. Anyway...classical economists believe we don't need any controls. If there is a shock/disturbance, the economy will control itself. Keynesians believe the economy is not automous, it needs controls.🙂. This video actually better than my economic classes...lol.

Simple and easy to understand. Thanks.

Excellent overview, thank you!

Excellent resource. Thanks!

Very nice overview Brian, thanks!

Management: closed loop or open loop?  The problem with closed loop management is inaccurate feedback. People lie.  Control is no better than your feedback. In many organizations bad news is severely punished.  So, you only get happy news. Many projects are "right on schedule" up until the completion date, then they are 3 - 6 months behind. Everyone can claim to be on time as long as someone else is further behind. Software is never more than 90% complete.  Many people consider using a single line of code once in a test to be "full testing". You can probably tell I'm a hardware guy. Open loop control doesn't require feedback.  People are told what to do and severely punished if they don't do it. It doesn't have the benefit of accuracy in the face of disturbances, however.

 @camgere  
You just described the problem of implementation of closed loop control.

Deming and other have asked to "abolish the fear" for this specific reason.
An that is exactly that Toyota did in the 70's, and almost owned everyone in their industry. Decades later, they are still a top company.

So, it can be done, but that would require a major change in the minds of all those MBA clowns. You would need to teach them about systems theory, psychology, control theory, statistical process control, design of experiements and other things. 

So, basically, one needs to trow 90% of the garbage that is currently being taught at universities, replace it with a bit of "dumbed down" explanations of these disciplines with focus on management, and then and only then, you would have a high chance of success of using closed control loop for management of companies.

The economy is a closed loop control system with the delay in the feedback path causing oscillation in the output, the economy. That's what recessions are, the troughs in the oscillation.

I wonder how many government leaders and financial controllers actually understand that?

 @deang5622  Considering that I was a local government leader (utility management) and I’ve spent the past 15 years or so explaining what you just said to elected and appointed officials… I feel confident in answering your question.  “I wonder how many …leaders…understand that?”  Based on the looks on their faces when I talk about it…. I’d say “not many” or “none”.  I doubt my NASA consultant college professor saw that application either.

 @deang5622  - Think tanks, like the Rand Corporation, actually used analog computers, in the 1950s and 1960s, to run economic models, under contract by the government. What, the politicians did with that, is another question.

​ @deang5622  recessions aren't that periodic though

 @deang5622  haha.  I’m not sure what that means…but I’ll guess you’re from the U.K?  No.  I’m an engineer by education.  Manager by occupation.

agree

You hit it on the head, Dave. It seems to me that schooling is deliberately caused to misalign with real-world needs. Jay W. Forrester reduced the Complexity where social systems and control system is concerned and Brian does a great job demystifying Control Theory, I must agree.

I think when you are fluent in mathematics you tend to create models all over the place, not just using control theory, because the years of studies have shaped the way you think.

Seems like a fantasy

This is what I have been having on my mind all the damn time but guys won't listen to me.

40 years ago, for me, but as an EE major. Yeah, Laplace Transforms. Actually, quite useful. And the relationship and similarity, of both electrical and mechanical components. As masses model the same as inductors (coils), and springs model as capacitors. But shortly thereafter, I got to use it for actual work. The company, I worked, at the time was contracted by Disney Imagineering, and we were redoing their Animatronics control. Had two of their robots, at our offices, to "play" with. They had some unique pneumatic, and hydraulic, actuators.

You are 100% correct.

I still can't understan how is it, that its basic concepts are not taught at business degrees, it is unbeliveable.

I mean, alone the concept of the controlability should be taught from day 1 in any management class. That would prevent the nonsense of giving accountabiltiy to people for things they can't control ( Yes, sales managers, I feel your pain).

The state of MBA and Management Education is just ridiculous, considering how much of stuff could be learned from engineering disciplines.

what elese is good for management?

@ohnonotagain42  Older post, but relevant. Control theories are applicable across domains.

I'm doing it now as mechanical engineering subject

 @hamza-mohal Enjoy your Laplace Transforms😂  I’m mostly retired and only deal with project management now

And where it isn’t

Still waiting..

Get inspired from this video, but come up with your own way of conveying the concepts. Your students would appreciate original efforts. Good luck with your program 👍.

@PiSumNow why ? If the video is good enough? I struggle to understand why people say good things about  collaboration but have the necessity to reinvent the wheel all the time

Also, Resourcium is awesome! It’s an amazing tool to organize references. Thanks a lot for building it.

How does one get into space robotics?

Thank you

link to the project?

I know this comment is 2yrs old now, hopefully you see this.

Are you an EE, CS, or ME? Which do you recommend going for to go into robotics?

⁠@Umlaut95Hey, thanks for the comment, I do see this :) I graduated with my Master’s in Mechanical Engineering with specialization in Robotics and Control System. This field is so vast and pervasive that you cannot go wrong with any of these streams, you just have to take the right courses. The beauty of robotics is it is highly interdisciplinary, so you need to have knowledge of mechanical design, electrical/electronics, and coding to make something worthwhile. However, you can specialize in a particular domain based on your interest. 

From my experience, most of the complexity lies in system integration, control system design, and learning tasks. So regardless of which branch you choose, your actual research would likely be in these domains unless you are designing something of industrial/commercial scale, in which case, each constituent domain could be a huge research field in itself. Let me know if you have further questions and I’ll be happy to help. Best wishes!

Great to hear! Thanks!

Thanks so much!

goodluck man

​ @BrianBDouglas  Thanks for the video. The thing I didn't get correctly was that at 12:10, you said, We want to measure states. But measurements have their own noises. So we add noise. If this was the reason for adding the noise, then the "sum" block for the noise section should be added on the feedback path, not the main path between the input and output. Am I right? Again Thank you for the effort.

 @mhdls  It's usually added where I put it (at least in these simplistic diagrams) because the output is often the measured state of the system which is subjected to noise.  For example, with the car speed the cruise controller would use the noisy speed measurement that was fed back to the controller, however, if you as the driver just wanted to know the speed you'd be looking at the same noisy measurement.  So, if you think of the entire diagram at 12:10 as a box with inputs and outputs, the inputs would be the things you as the driver do to the car (+ disturbances) and the output would be the things you as the driver can observe (noisy measurements since you can't know the true speed).  Did that make sense?

The economy, because it involves humans, is actually much more dynamical than these systems, in a fundamental way. That's why economists and politicans succumb to their fatal conceit, and people suffer in the process.

It is not just a physics system, it's a social system. Physics (so far) can not predict social behavior to the accuracy needed to direct an economy. Certain economic theories argue it's in fact impossible, unless you supress human individuality.

Science and engineering are great. Forcefully engineering people's lives is profoundly horrible and dystopian. When you say the economy needs controls, in reality you're saying people's lives need to be controlled and directed. It's profoundly authoritarian. Keynes himself wrote that his theories are best applied under authoritarian regimes.

Economics will be a science and not a religion the day it can build a successful predictive model and not a second before.

​ @ivorjawa you have never even taken a basic economics class. Let me know when you do that.

Even though I have learned this before, I do like to watch Brian's video which is an enjoyable tech speech.

Thank you for this video. This is an insanely good overview of topics perfeclty laid out in a concise, rational and logical way for someone to grasp the ideas and start from there. Personally I took only basic classes on the subject but always felt I wanted more. Work has actually pushed me into another field which I also love, but this is motivating enough for me to take some time and study some of the concepts you've mentioned.

You are amazinggg!!!! Thanks for the overview. Helped anyone to gather where they are in their control theory journey. Best tutor ever.!!!!!!

man you are the best, you can even open a school for control just with the materials you have on the internet. I couldn't imagen what kind of job you that made you know all of that and can explain it like but I am sure this not an academic experience at all you feel like working at NASA

So useful. Thank you Brian!

Brian Douglas's video really helped my study in control system. Have been waiting his videos

Getting wartime flashbacks to my systems modeling and control class

Absolutely goated video MATCHADS. Once again you have given me the gift of more knowledge. Keep doing what you do.

That was really insightful. Amazing. Thank you so much.

Fantastic video, thank you so much.

Thanks MATLAB for this overview. This is exactly what I need regarding the Controller introduction

Great explanations Brian!

Thank you for sharing these interesting topics in a progression and step by step :)

Good explanation for a layperson like myself.

Thanks, great overview

This is amazing video! such a perfect, concise, and organized overview of the field!

@2:28: "Do you need to know the states to determine the control inputs?" 
... aaand the answer is actually YES as you come to this result for yourself @6:06: "Obviously this is unrealistic"

excellent and simple explanation...

Today is my first day  of Learning System Dynamics. I was told that I should spend sometime understanding Control Theory.

Oh it's you actually.  I watched your videos long time ago in your channel.

It was very helpful . thank you

Thanks a lot Brian ! I am doing my masters in control and you have been a great mentor.

This is such a great explanation especially for someone like me trying to break into the field. Thank you so much for sharing. Keep shining ☀😎

thanks for this introduction!

I just had my first control system lecture today. As paar the comments seems like i have gotten a jackpot. In German they say This Modul is the hardest. Even physics is not as hard. Thats what everyone says in my Uni. But with help of someone like you,seem like there is light at the end of the turnel. Thanks alot

Thanks a lot Brian for the video! It really clears and summarises control theory, really useful to people like me that study computer science as an amateur.

Great Teacher!

Thank you, Devs.

what a great video, thanks!

Excellent introduction about control theory. My research area is Adaptive Filtering. I really enjoyed your video. Great job!

Thank you Mr. Douglas, I have been on the lookout for this.  

Sometime in the last millennium I did a one semester university course on control systems, not because it was required for my degree, but because it sounded interesting (and it was).  Since then, I have often wondered about naturally occurring control systems, such as how our bodies regulate insulin production and a host of other essential metabolic processes.  It occurred to me that many natural phenomena could be explained by control systems that somehow evolved.  

Also, in business, there are control systems that have been developed to keep a business on track. My degree was in actuarial studies, and there was a course devoted to an actuarial control cycle where new business premiums and reserves were adjusted at various frequencies to ensure that the business would remain solvent and effective.  Of course, this was just something that a bunch of actuaries cooked up at some point, and I doubt that they used any formal mathematics relating to control systems in general.  I expect that many businesses use some form of control system like this.  These always seemed somewhat blunt to me, as they operated on quarterly cycles rather than instantaneously, and they measured only a few things which were really only weak proxies for what was actually going on.  Also the predictive models used were not even as accurate as weather prediction these days.

In short, I have been imagining control systems everywhere as responsible for regulating the behaviour of all sorts of things - whether naturally occurring or somehow arising from trial and error.  Of course, I imagine trial and error as a kind of control system in its own right :)

Sorry about the long ramble, but there are some questions I have.   In a naturally occurring control system, there has been no planning, or at least none that has been revealed to us.  Do you think that it is possible to work out from the behaviour of such a system what exactly is being implicitly modelled, measured and adjusted?  If it were possible to work this out, perhaps it would then be possible to more effectively treat illnesses such as diabetes.  

Assuming I am right, and that there are naturally occurring control systems, how do they arise?  Are they somehow built into evolution?

Again, apologies for the long ramble.  All the best, and thanks again for the video.

Brian Douglas is an artist!

Wow! Glad I ran into this topic. This will help me understand personal development from a more logical standpoint. This topic makes so much sense when translating it to understand and change  my individual psychology.

Perfect video, can you talk about the application of the control theory on high altitude platforms of wireless communications

thx very much man!!!! Great video!

This is a great video I wish every student watch it at the beginning of any control-related course. 
Thank you, sir.  your videos helped me a lot in my career.

Amazing video, thank you!

Brian Douglas is the best in describing control theory in an understanding manner. I dusted off my knowledge very easily with him for teaching my own modules at my university.

Thank you brian for your in-depth and application oriented control system videos. This helped me to understand the concepts clearly as well as in my placements in the same company. Thank You!

Watched it twice, it is that good! Thank you for putting everything in one place in a compact form. I hope this inspires more students to take on controls as their specialty.

Thanks! Good luck with your controls course.

 @reverse9106  Yes definitely living things, but maybe also other things like societies, ecosystems and economies.  At my age don't really have time to study everything, but the topic really interests me.  I'm just not sure if any of these topics have been viewed through the lens of control systems.

It seems to me that if you look, control systems are everywhere.  Or perhaps it's just my imagination :)

Your intuitions are spot on! Check out  "Perceptual Control Theory (PCT) -  Bill Powers"

 @earnestcarr6673  Thanks for the hint.  Just found a whole lot of YT videos by or about him and PCT.  Thanks, I will check this out.

Your intuition is on point. Please read "The Human Use of Human Beings" by Norbert Wiener. A good book on feedback systems throughout nature. He argues that intelligence, and in extension, any form of life, can be abstractly viewed as a feedback system.

 @daviskipchirchir1357  Thank you for that tip.  I will have a look at that.

It's not exactly "control" but you might consider looking at system dynamics. It considers how interacting events find equilibriums in complex systems through positively or negatively reinforcing feedback loops.

 @neilirvine7129  Thanks.  Yes, I think the word "control" in this context is misleading.  I am pretty sure that equilibrium reactions and actions follow similar principles.  I'll look into system dynamics too.  Thanks for the tip.

Thank you for the long ramble! It was very interesting to read.

Awesome man!

An amazing thing about feedback control is that in scenarios where speed isn't much of an issue, almost arbitrarily bad systems still work. That is, your sensors might be noisy and have unquantified nonlinearities, your system model might be crude, and your control inputs all coupled together, but if all you care about is "getting there", and not reacting to fast disturbances, you can build a controller that will get you there, provided it's physically possible.

Thank you for this great intuitive explanation. It was a joy to listen to your talk.

tried liking this video like 3 times already

This is by far the best video on the basics of the control theory. Thank you for this.

really wonderful. Thanks

Thank you Brian for the contributions to our society of Control Engineers! 🎛️

Bravo and thank you. This will go a long way... .

Another masterpiece,thanks a lot. Brian, can you organize some workshops? I will be willing to spend my entire monthly salary on it if you do that. Any live sessions if you have , I would fancy participating in that as well.

this was amazing

Great video❤

Great Video.

It was a very helpful introduction into Control Theory how it was supposed to be presented during a course.

Excellent !

i love automation thank you sir

Nice video

This is awesome.

Just Elegance 👏👏

I'm so glad this is freely available, it is incredibly valuable, and very well distilled. The overall explanation is very well covered, and very importantly, it is giving EXAMPLES BY NAME!
As a person trying to learn these topics on my own, I thank you a lot!

I hope you create a map for studying the control theory. :)

Glad you found it helpful!

I appreciate that!

Glad it was helpful.

Glad it was helpful for you!

Great to hear it's helping you out!

1:34 Disturbances are actually environmental. Not only wind and bumps, but also social - other vehicles in the road.

this is really cool

Thank you!

Thanks a lot

Wonderful

I've got a PhD in control theory, which is all about getting solution bounds of algebraic Lyapunov and Riccati matrix equations. Said equations play an important role in various control and engineering problems, especially stability analysis and linear quadratic optimal control of LTI systems.

Brian i follow your work since 2019, you are amazing please never give up on bringing such an illuminating explanation of control theory.

Awesome

Thank you so much for great explanation and your valuable effort!

One thing that this missed was the fact that for some systems measurements actually change the state of the system. Measuring the state requires interacting with the system which will change the state

Hey! Great video! I have a question regarding one of the statement you made, Brian. You mentioned that closed loop feedback is associated with possible instability but open loop control is not. Is there no way to have some feedforward bounded input to a signal that still yield instability. Perhaps some input that leads system resonance and instability?

That is a wonderful video, love it!

Please make a video on ADRC

I am a guy who stumbled into this field back in the 70's, working with a bunch of hardware guys from Heath Kit (Remember them?), developing a dot matrix printer. Then it was on to a company that developed technology for automotive and consumer applications. Finally worked on big systems like railroad maintenance equipment and warehouse material handling systems. I never had the benefit of a formal education in control theory; I thought of it as another type of software development and just sort of picked up the methodology along the way. It's fascinating to see it summarized like this.

It's so good

My whole semester control engineering in 16 minutes video♥❤

1) Error signals are required (tee hee).
2) Adaptive (learning) control only works if the whole system responds ok. (You can realistically expect the parameters will eventually max out. It all starts over if the historical data are wiped out.).
3) Tune everything until you are bored to death.
4) Keep re-testing as often as possible.
4) "Real boats rock.", Bene Gesserit saying.

Brian you are the best.

6:20 you actually wrote "accelerate" and "brake", 4 times each! no copy-pasting.
dedication! 
(There is a way you would have done this with a text renderer that does human-like writing, yes)

you are beast

Thanks so much!

Glad it was helpful!

Glad you liked it!

Thanks for sharing your amazing journey. Glad you found the video informative.

Glad you enjoyed it.

🤗

Sometimes just writing it out is easier :)

I recognize this is centered around Systematic Engineering but I feel that this reflects how we can both prosper and tailor to our circumstances as individuals, or incidentally impede ourselves in a negative and or unintentional direction

Thank you! Finding this interesting

thanks

Downloaded

they should teach more engineering knowledge to cs students because it is so important.

Sounds very interesting. Thinking of ways to apply this to the immune system of humans in health and disease. But how did I get here???

Am I the only one that put "in the force" in their head after every time he says "a disturbance"? Great video by the way!

Feedback control is not a "hack", it is a fundamental principle of both natural and engineered servo sytems. The behavior of a closed loop system is fundamentally different than the sum of its component parts. Failure to understand this leads to the hubris of presuming that everything can be reduced to a stream of ones and zeros.

You left out the best example of a feedback control system — the mouse and cursor. I actually had a manufacturer tell me that the position sensor in the mouse would have to have an accuracy of 1 part in 1024. He is assuming an open-loop control system. Real systems use a feedback system. The user moves the mouse until the cursor on the screen is where he wants it. That is feedback.

God bless you .... i'm starting to learn how to tune Mpc and i really need helps .... can any one here help me ?.

Perfect explanation ❤❤❤❤

❤👍

Amazing 
Thanks man

Give me please books talk about controlability and obserbability

Supervisied learning is feedforward and Reinforcement learning is feedback controlled

Can you provide the tool that you are using for the presentation?

Everything you need to know about Control Theory:
1. rub more PID on it until it works

2. if that doesn't work, blame the hardware and buy better hardware

Love u Brian ❤️

Feed forward controllers are essentially like the Bill Murray character in Groundhog Day

офигенный ролик

Glad you're finding it interesting!

Haha, thank you!

Thanks! I'm glad you found it helpful.

You're welcome!

Been in computerized controls since 1973.
Yeh, I agree that's what it comes down to after all.

❤❤

Ha! I always thought Bill Murray was learning through Iterative Learning Control (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iterative_learning_control).

 @BrianBDouglas  Nice. I guess my comment was based on the part of the film after he got it down.

😂😂

is there any map of optimality theory？

Клевый ролик

Convergent vs. divergent systems… sin(log -e/wt)

Question: what software is this?

Klaus Schwab loves you.

Hey, whats this applications name?

Good

Similar concepts in programming. Sounds like developing AI for video games

So, whats the difference between Feedforward control and open loop control? 
Please correct me if I am wrong. Feedforward has feedback in the system but doesn't use feedback as it slow, just uses the feedforward loop in case of any disturbances to just make it fast and not waiting for the entire system to get affected.

I did take a course in control theory and recommend it for everyone in software or hardware. But in your autonomous car,  you left out a major disturbance. Many people have seen the test videos where autonomous cars run down children in crosswalks. Of course, they are just child-sized crash dummies.

Effectivley the feed-forward is a "human" it understands the environment and therefore is effectively a feed-back. Goes back to my control systems classes in electrical engineering at uni, and yes lovely Laplace transformations. Feed-back again is the human who has knowledg of the system/car/env beforehand and during. Humans therefore, use ALL control methods interactively and to optimise actual control, unless you have a 18 year old.

NOICE.

aaaah yes but i expected to see some complex analysis and curse Ahlfors once again

Why don't we want to use feedback control? If it such a useful tool, why wouldn't we want to use it? Feedback control is in our senses, we learn this way.

Are u ryan douglas

How does control theory apply to living organisms or their artificial counterparts?

Has control theory been used to model government policies and their effectiveness in improving social welfare and reducing inequality ?

🤤

I'm pretty sure any well oiled Factorio player will destroy your theory.
All you need is Factorio. All you need is skills.

Wonder which controller SPaceX is using to balance their booster rocket fly back to its docking place.

Thanks for watching!

ya but feedforward control system includes disturbances but open loop control system is used where disturbance is minimal

Glad you liked it.

I think we'd want to not overcomplicate a system when we can. So no feedback when we can... and use feedback only when we need to

@h0ph1p13  so long as the environment is static.

There's a lot of control theory in living organisms.  For example, when you eat carbs, your pancreas detects an increase in glucose in your blood and releases insulin to lower it.  As the glucose increase slows, it releases less insulin.  If glucose gets too low, it releases glucagon to raise it.

Thanks Ken, your example is clear - my refrigerator works same manner. Question: is neurons network involved to this control process?

I don't know,  @olegsheverda5167 .  Maybe in sensing, though the main control action is by signaling molecules in the blood.

Good.

Which software are you using to create this video

Sir, do you happen to have a chamber pressure control model? I'm in the research of PID control of an vacuum chamber by a butterfly valve. Really need some guidance or a quick start. The system is with disturbance of flow rate, pumping speed, etc. Thank you

A very good high level overview.  However don’t claim this is all you need to know about control theory.  It’s a vast topic.  Better to do a university course in control and learn the topic properly.  Good luck.

ረ? sure

Did “Control Theory” used to be called Cybernetics?

this has a lot of issues just in the logic

VERY LOW VOLUME!!!

Hare club for men 🚹

Was für eine aufwändige Recherche. Was für eine Tragik. Und am Ende alles umsonst.

It's too bad this old framework 'Control Theory' is even still used as a means of discussing anything, it's holding us back, using this way of talking about systems is basically just extra noise,, it's a relic of a time when it was difficult, and engineers were often too lazy, to integrate any kind of sensor inputs.

this shit is gold

Just bs

'you can understand all of control theory with a single diagram' ... making some big claims in this vid

99% of the time, a Ph.D. in control theory is less useful than knowing how to program a PLC.

Soooo much glah blah for such an obvious topic…

He Drastically Underplays Stability ... could be dangerous if beginners don't realize how complex this topic is.. (this sh*t is not for laymen..)

Control





🎖️🤘

#1: don't use matlab when there is better FOSS available

The title of the video is misleading. It purports to teach you everything you need to know about Control Theory.

This is not the case. The video can best be described as an introduction, certainly not everything you need to know.

Critically, the video doesn't cover phase margin, gain margin, conditions for oscillation, under damped, critically damped, over damped output.

You cannot produce a video on control theory without talking about damping on the output or transfer function. Very basic critical concepts. But you've done it. And that is not good.

It is not called feed forward control, it's called open loop.

I explain my process here: https://engineeringmedia.com/my-setup

This MATLAB example shows an example with a pressure control servo valve model. Would this be a good starting point for you? https://www.mathworks.com/help/hydro/ug/sscfluids_pressure_control_servo_valve.html

 @BrianBDouglas  Thank you for the reply.

Cybernetics was a different discipline that had the same focus. It was mostly researched in the Soviet Union and doesn't really exist anymore.
Fun fact, the Greek word kybernetikos ("ship steering") is the origin of both "Cybernetics" and "Governance".. As well as the Cloud computing tool Kubernetes

Oh, that’s interesting! I only know American pioneers of cybernetics: Norbert Wiener, Ashby, Forrester, …
Who were the Soviet cyberneticians?

Ehhh what? We know this subject as Control systems or Control engineering.

Control theory if you want to advance, PLC programming if you want to stay in the "user" place

So true at the end of the day the manufacturer of whatever controller data sheet and training manual is all you will ever need. Unless you work in R and D for these companies than yeah

yeah he definitely drastically underplays stability.. like just another tick mark.. but hey, it's youtube.. mostly for utter amateurs..

Why thumbs down: 6 + minutes of the obvious. Wasted my time. PID: did you define it? No. Stop naming things and not describing them. This could be good, but you need to hone your skills and decide on your audience.

It's a shame for MathWorks to publish such a pile of ignorant nonsense.

Homosapien feedback and feed forward control systems are so far advanced to anything we’ve built, everything else looks like a little want-to-be primitive attempt. I suggest control system engineers study them and prepare to be amazed.

bro used a crystal ball to represent predictive control. Stop this man.

Thanks

How much control theory did you seriously think you would learn in 16 minutes?

Can you explain what's wrong with it?

 @bruhmoment1835  Start with functional analysis, stochastic processes, observability, controllability, stability, zero-dynamics, non-linearity, Laplace, Lyapunov, Black, Nyquist, Bellman, Dixon, Wiener, Pontryagin, Kalman, Ljung, Nayfeh, robust, optimal, adaptive, distributed, MIMO, hierarchical, self-organizing, emergent (that's how our brains work) control theories. It would take you 100s of years only to introduce the relevant topics, and, of course, no single person may physically know it all. However, there are many people who claim to understand it all... well, For every complex problem there is an answer that is clear, simple, and wrong.

Assuming you mean using humans as a controller. Humans can also introduce instability like he said. Ever see someone over correcting a car on the highway, first one way, and then the other way, as the swerve gets worse and worse and worse until they crash?

Great, thanks!

