The best lm386 tutorial you can see.

Hey JAT, Most excellent tutorial on LM386, built a few and this is what I needed to know, thankyou. I didn't realize the ground paths should be seperate, I usually put all grounds to one negative rail. Awesome! Please keep making vids as able, take care, C 

These ICs perform really well if set up correctly. I have a home built LM386 stereo amp powering a pair of bookshelf speakers on my computer desk and at the  moderate levels you need for close listening it sounds wonderful.

Years ago I had no luck getting the 386 to sound good, I watched your video's and I connected my Ipod stereo output together as you shown the proper way in another video, I am using 15volts supply,I am also using the bass boost between pins 1 and 5 and I have to say I am very impressed with the way this thing sounds!! Thanks for all the tips!!

Sounds great. I just did my first LM386 and it sounds like crap. A schematic would be very helpful. Thanks for sharing for now I know ....it will produce some pretty good audio.

Love your channel and you knowledge and style.
I am attempting my first Lm386, with 3 chips and stereo.
I am a beginner and am still mapping things out. Glad your settled in your new place!! Sorry about your loss aswell. Love your content.

i have got a COPY of your kittycat!
Almost exact same kittycat here!   its a wild streetcat i ve got,but now,after a year or so,she  finally became homely,....and LOVES my white Labrador.
Awesome video dear friend!keep it up!,...love it!   learned so much! greets from the Netherlands!

Great videos on the LM386 dude. Many thanks for your tips on the circuit layouts to reduce noise.

what are the values of those components? I like the way this circuit sounds and want to replicate it.

Never thought that signal and power ground could be this important. I admit that when I was experimenting with audio IC's, I had a lot of problems with distorsions and such. Thanks for sharing your knowledge. :)

This actually works great.  Just tried it.  Thanks.

Thank for this, it made a lot sense.

I put a .47 uf cap from output to ground and it sounds really good

Separate input signal and power. Of course. Why didn't I think of that. Thanks for helping a newb :)

Sounding good man can i get tha schematic

Your cat, at five minutes of rambling, said "Shut up and do some electronics."

Very simple thanks

rip Radioshack

Awesome 
could you please explain jow to insert the msgeq7 into the circuit?
Its a pretty cool future which enables you to assign lights to frequencies, yet the gain is set to 20db so it limits the outcome 
gain plays essential roll could be cool if you would be able to control it

I read below in some answer that the decoupling capacitor connected to input ground is of 0.22 if or 1 uf. Is this correct?

Yes, the devil is in the details. Thanks for watching!

The ones closest to me are still around they are independently owned.  The corporate stores are closed.  I've started shopping there again.  Now they can purchase from other suppliers.  I'm amazed at how much better their inventory is now.  I actually bought a LM386N there yesterday.

anyone got the ckt diagram? along with pin nos. n all?

Can you tell me how can solve over heating problem Please.

You may also find that the bread board is causing some noise through capacitance of the tracks

You're videos are great! I've learned a lot!

After seeing this video I presume that the manhattan style of circuit construction is not apropriate for audio circuits? Having a commom ground as the entire copper board will it produce hum noise?

What do you think? 

Thanks!

I am trying to make an audio amplifier for an old WW2 record player using a 7052a chip.  trying to figure out how the transisters go in as well ?? Trying to understand can be diffucult.. i think i have an idea, but need to make sure where the connecitons go..

Like the cat. You can add small heat sink with heat conductive paste or silicon grease. U shaped fins or just thin copper bent in U about double size of chip will help a lot. Goid call on grounding plan. Really helps with the higher gain circuit with cap/ resistor from pins 1 to 8. 73 Karl

Awesome video John. I wouldn't have given the capacitor on pin 7 a second thought when it comes to its ground point, but now that I have seen this video it becomes obvious when looking in the data sheet.

Прикольно)

can you help me with my 50w mini amplifier kit?

I would like to see how you deal with LM386 bridge config.

What you want?
INFORMATION. INFORMATION. INFORMATION.

Can I use speakers, large then 4watt

Btw a cap 1 or 2 UF down to .1 uf or suitable for your audio taste, audio from ground to unused input pin is good idea. It lets amp avoid offset on out put and lessens flat topping on plus or minus ac peak.

Why do you have a polyester cap on audio input but no resistor to make it a full rc filter? Im building an Lm386-4 stereo and need a cleaner audio input. Currently i only have a resistor in paralell.

There are so many variations of this thing on the net a pinout and part values via a schematic would be nice if you get the time.  Thanks!

Can I use 10uF capacitor as input coupling and 470uF as output coupling ?

I built the circuit with a LM386-1.  Sounds great and no noise. I then swapped it for the LM386-4. No difference in volume/gain. Tried both chips at 5v,9v,12v and the  LM386-4 at 18v. No difference in volume gain.   Any suggestions on why and how to fix? I used 4 and 8 ohm speakers. I have a guitar pedal prototyping unit that supplies the various voltages so I can quickly test all moving a dial. No difference at 20 times or 200 times gain.

I did follow the guidance offered here and definatley noticed a difference in the output.  One thing i noticed was that when powering up (and down) the LM386 was a distinct pop or bump from the connected speaker - what would your suggestion be to get rid of the pop or bump?

what is that reference book you are using

hey are you using thomas floyd electronics book?

Thanks for watching! If I didn't mention it in the video, if you can get the LM386 sounding clean, you can get any amplifier sounding good. The LM386 is sensitive to proper grounding layout.

 @JohnAudioTech  How can we have separate power and audio grounds when all grounds need to be electrically same at some point?
Do you mean the distance between power and audio grounds should be far apart?

This is going to sound mad but I just got 960mW into 8 ohm @ 12v, the chip got a little hotter than I'd like but it measured 2.78v RMS on the scope before clipping. Obviously the THD % will be high at this point but its still a surprise.

Have you ever measured anything like this with the chip delivering higher power than the datasheet spec? Also heads up TI just updated their lm386 datasheet.

Very nice video! One thing that most people don't realize is that since our hearing is logarithmic, 10 times the power is only twice as loud. In your example, 5 watts is only twice as loud as .5watts (.5watts was pretty loud), and 50watts therefore is only 4 times louder than 1/2watt. Thank you for doing such a great job! 

hi john,
thankyou for getting back to me me, im only learning electronics as a hobby,
i only wanted to find out what values you used in the video with the caps plus what pins do they connect to thats all i wanted to no.
i really enjoyed the videos that ive seen of yours keep up the good videoing.
john

I do hope you see this John. I received 50 x LM386 for £1.48. Failure rate = OOER! probably. No idea what V these LM386 (-1. -4 types ?) are so took a chance on 12 V. I did exactly as you said plus a big cap on each output (I did stereo and was worried about the DC / speaker thing) .They were pretty good on my old 15 Ohm Tannoy's, they are old school and VERY sensitive. First amp built in 50 years and first black thing wiv legs ever. Thanks for the help

Thank you very much John! Excellent, really reduced noise almost completely! What about Pin 7 capacitor? it's ground goes to power ground or signal ground?

Very good but whats the use with circuit diagram okay ok I came to know that you can make it but no use for others

hi john, i watched your video on youtube and liked it very much, ive just built a champ amp on a veroboard, could i get a schematic from you on the (lm386 audio amp and proper ground layout). please
dusty

Might your ever build layout and test lm386 stereo 2watt amp?

I know I’m late buuuuuuut....

Do you remember what components you used for this circuit ?

Distortion / overdrive with the LM 386 ( schematics please )

Can I use 4v battery?

Btw, just a suggestion. Do you know smokey amp? Many people, me included have problems with noise. It would be nice if you can build it without noise, with just 2 47 uf capacitors and the lm386 ic. It is for electric guitars. Maybe you know it.

So, I took screenshots of your before and after circuit, and flipped back and forth between them for a while checking for the differences. But there were no differences. Literally nothing changes.
What's up with that?..

¿So you are saying that pin 2 and 3 are for audio input, and 4-6 for power input? If it's like that, that sounds logical to me.

I saw a video where someone claimed to get 8 watts out of one of these, it was extremely distorted though, and probably didn't last long after the video.

Excellent video. I have been wanting to build one of these little amps for a while. I am new to this, but I have become very interested in electronics after building a stir plate with the lm317 for home brewing. Can you send me a parts list? and schematic? I have looked online, but it seems like there are a lot of different options, as far as parts list go. Thank you.

for me destortion is not the problem coz i use high capacitor on the power gate and use 450uf capacitor between ground and pin 7 the problem is the overheating i put small capacitor on the oudio output it fixes the heating but weak sound

man I wish you wouldve gone through the actual wiring process

👍👍👍👍👍

I want distortion / fuzz but not interference & hissing , just good guitar distortion

I used pretty much what the datasheet recommends and it also shows the pin out of the IC.

12v supply with 15 ohm load is fine for these little ICs. You could go to 15v with that load to give you a little clipping headroom if you find you need it. Have fun!

I thought power ground myself as it’s a bypass for power. If you have a noisy PSU it can help. John can confirm I guess!

I have another video showing the layout when I made an amplified speaker using the LM386. I'd include a link but YT thinks messages with links are spam and blocks them.

 yehoutube  Here is the link to my latest LM386 layout:https://youtu.be/P4GsoMTv-SY

You should look into this thing everybody calls "the internet". I hear people can find all kinds of information there. Maybe you'll find the information you're looking for as well..

Yeah, I think he was telling us a tall tale. The LM386 might blow up within seconds at that power level.

Google for the LM386 datasheet. It gives several samples of different amplifiers you can build.

If you at first connected the speaker directly to the output with no capacitor in series with the speaker, the chip will get very warm and probably be damaged. You may need a new IC at this point.

sure i know coz capacitor in the sires works as stopper the feedback to out put and block the DC from passing to speaker and open the way for AC signals only to pass

silentscribes In my LM386 amplified speaker project, I showed more of the wiring layout using basically the same circuit.

nice work! can you tel me if i can make an amplifier based on the lm386 to hear a guitar pickup output with earphones? as a sort of earphone monitor? thanks!

Good video--thanks for the info. Were you using an LM386-1 or an LM386-3?

it always overheating wich makes audio decreases how can i solve this problem

if you need amp that sounds like a motorboat or airplane prop get the lm386,much better options to use than a 386 that burps and farts more than i do,i had these and most just burned out on very low power,years ago this was a great chip,what went wrong with it😂

Seems like every electronics hobbyist have a cat. Kinda like "must have" LOL
And, this kind of layout is called star ground, right?

How can we have separate power and audio grounds when all the grounds are electrically same?
I mean to say that we need to connect all grounds at same point then how can grounds  be separate if we can't electrically separate them?

Great video. Super informative for those of us trying to troubleshoot our lm386 circuits. But the schematic you show is sorely lacking in information. This wouldn’t normally be a big deal, but your layout differs from what’s shown on TI’s LM386 datasheet. Can you add a link to the schematic for your circuit?

Hey John, really like your videos, will watch more. Was wondering what would you suggest as a modern alternative to the LM386. I am actually looking for a 5v 2-3W mono amp, something efficient that sounds decent. I can work with either 4 or 8 ohms. I am building an alarm clock that can play music, and would like something that can also run of a 500mah battery for a bit.

Trying to add a 10k pot to the LM386(5v with TEA5767 radio chip/atmega on same BB), but having a few problems: I only have to turn the pot a little, and the volume distorts and cuts out. So I'm not getting the full volume range from 0 to 100% with the pot. How would I solve this?

You have a ceramic capacitor on the input signal here. Do you know what the measurement is for that? It's not suggested in the datasheet. I have an electrolytic cap in that spot already, to remove the DC offset, but I am wondering if this input cap has a distinct purpose.

Hi John,
If you see this 8 years after the video a quick related question from me where I am an on and off electronics hobbyist is:

If you use an op-amp as a pre-amp with a Dual power supply such as +6 volts at the Vcc input and -6 volts at the Vee input where do you attach the Signal input ground? To a separate zone connected to Vee or to the floating or virtual ground or what ever the Zero volt connection is that the signal swings between as it swings towards but not hits both the  +6 volt and -6 volt rails of the Dual Power Supply???
Thanks.....

So the ground paths basically have to be built in a star topology? I have a 386 circuit using an 8 ohm old car speaker and I always get a cracking or popping during random occasions. 9V supply. When it pops the sound will be sort of muffled..until it pops again and I get my clear signal. Lol. Would this help? I'd have to pull the circuit out of the speak box ad see if I could rework the pcb to this method...

rip radio shack

LM386 has only 3 connections, +, - and Output, but in your circuit I see 4 connections to the LM386 8:03! How is that possible?

Try 5 v

Wow. It was a little jarring to hear you talk about Radio Shack in the present tense.

Hello there,

I am currently studying electrical engineering and I have a question regarding circuits. I want to be able to build an amplifier or speaker, create an original outer casing and then be able to sell it. If you use someone else's circuit is it considered illegal? Or is everything on YouTube regarding electronics and circuits open domain? I do not want to claim that I invented or created the circuit all by myself, I only wish to create a product that I can sell. Any thoughts on this?

i saw Snickers passed away, was he sick?

Do you have the full schematic with labeling of the grounding...i would like to try this

Man! Oh Man! I watch a lot of your videos because they are helpful but, your camera is making me seasick. I can't finish watching this video. Please go back to your other camera.

+tzenobite Yes you can. I actually have built a guitar amplifier. I use a 10" 2 way zenith allegro 3000 speaker as it's output. Makes a GREAT acoustic guitar amp.

Tom Cleaveland I think it was a N-1

The Future Sound Of Egypt put a series cap at output to speaker.

MrJohhhnnnyyy I don't know about everyone else, but cats work with my lifestyle as they are cheap and easy to care for and if I need hit the road for a couple days, I just leave food, water and clean litter.Yes, this is basically star grounding.

All wire and traces have a small amount of resistance and inductance. It is important that the small signal grounds are not carrying large signals (like the output return ground) Because the small voltage developed across the wire can be picked up by the input. Google star grounding. This may explain it better.

Please see my newer video called the "LM386 done right" for a better implementation.

Actually nevermind, I just watched your TDA7267 Video. Awesome channel! Keep up the good work!

Pam8406

See my volume control video (can't send link because of spam blocker). Sounds like you have some connections wrong on the pot.

Thanks for the reply John. I'd previously watched philo mech's tutorial, but it seems his is wired wrong. I've ended up putting a 104j cap on pin 3 to the pot output and removed the cap from pin 1 to 8. All working fine now and sounds pretty good to my ear:)

Will watch your video though to make sure I ain't missing anything. Thanks again :))

That reddish brown cap is a film cap. Ceramic is not recommended for passing audio signals. As I recall, the input impedance of the LM386 is around 50k, so 1uf should be plenty. The input of the LM386 is ground referenced and no cap is needed, however I recommend using one to remove any possible DC offset as you have done.

Very helpful! I will get some film caps pronto. When you say 1uF should be "plenty" – do you mean 1uF is "plenty high enough capacitance" so that the capacitor does not add significantly to the incoming signal's impedance, which should in total be below 50k? Is that the goal in choosing a cap value for this spot?

I think you dont need to so that? This ic propably moves audio sinewave all to thw ppsitive site so u can just use gnd and v+

Yes, you should always use a star ground topology to keep high current signals from flowing in in the low current signal paths which can cause distortion or oscillation. Shielding of the input helps as well.

JohnAudioTech Shielding of the input?

it has 8 pins, but only 3 are drawn in diagrams as its an OpAmp.

Berk THE TURK IC stands for integrated circuit, and usually there will be some kind of disclaimer in the description or something if the design is patented, but they usually aren't

I'm no lawyer but I think you are okay unless the circuit had some special design and was patented. Circuits based on ICs often have example circuits given by the manufacturer on the datasheet that you can use and modify without legal issue.

+JohnAudioTech Thank you so much for the response. First off, what does IC stand for? Second, are most of the circuits on YouTube patented, and if so how can you tell? Is it in the description box or something? Also, how would you modify an existing circuit so that it's different than the original? Please get back to me on this!!!

Hi Larry, Yes, I lost my little buddy last July. There is a post in the community tab of my channel with more information.

Look up my LM386 amplified speaker project. It has a schematic. YT blocks links as spam so I can't post a link.

Thx will check it out

In your first example you were using the inverting input, but in the next example you used the non inverting input. In the first example you did let the non inverting input open, but in the second example you connected the non inverting input to the bypass capacitor of pin 7, but did not connect them to ground! I don't understand this. I can't argue with the results because the second example did sound better. But I don't understand what you did because in one example you used one configuration, but in the other example you used another configuration. My confusison doesn't come from the fact that in one example you did an inverting amp and in the next a non inverting amp, but because you did not make the same connections. In the first example you followed the manual, but in the second example you did not connect pin 2 to ground nor pin 7, but instead connect pin 2 and 7 with a capacitor and I don't understand this becuse it's not in the manual. In the datasheet it shows that those pins must be connected to ground. To me this is very confusing. Like I said, I'm not gonna argue with the results, but the circuits were not the same configuration. You did not just "rearranged" the grounds. I don't see how doing this is any different from having a ground in the same rail like you did in the first example. I did notice the difference, but I don't understand what is different about it because in the end of the day you had to connect all the points and what bugs me out the most is that you did not connect pin 2 and 7 to ground.

If you look carefully, you can see that I used pin 3, the non inverting input, in each case as the signal input. In the second example, the inverting input is tied to ground along with the bypass capacitor with a jumper. It is hidden behind the input capacitor but is visible at times in the video. The second example ties each return to ground using its own path which is a much better design. See my newer video "LM386 Done Right" for an even better LM386 circuit.

 @JohnAudioTech  I finally got it! Google's AI helped me. I asked it over and over and over and over again and it kept explaining to me until I finally got it. See if you agree with me. We have a ground for the weak alternating signal and we have a ground for the energy which powers the devices and I can't mix those up because it generates noise. We will have to connect all the points, and this is where I was getting confused, but we have to connect them in the correct way. We do this by running one wire from our signal's ground and another single wire from the energy's ground and connect those two wires with the negative of the power supply (I'm not using a dual power supply, but a simple 9V battery). This will connect all the parts and will be the "star ground" configuration that you explained. I was using one ground bus for everything, but now I understood that I have a ground bus for the weak signal and a ground bus for the power signal, and we connect those two ground buses to the negative of the power supply. This way the currents won't be misex up. There will be a path for the weak alternating signal and a path for the power signal which powers the devices. Now I was experimenting with the simplest LM386 circuit which the datasheet presents and I think my chip is fake. I'm only getting 36mW of power. This is not acceptable for my chip. It should be at least 300mW give or take according to the datasheet. My chips must be fake. It sucks. Do you have a way to test those chips?

