I beg you to put chapters on your videos.

I must have soldered my vista 20 times trying to figure out where my short was. Come to find out, it was the smoke stopper the whole time. 😆

Thank you so much my man! This information is invaluable to the folks like myself who are still learning the hobby.  Simply one of the single best fpv problem solving videos I've seen! Love the content 👌

thank you. i watched the whole thing. these tips helpes a lot.

Thank you so much for the no throttle down point. I was scared for a second lol, I didnt want it to just take off into space

Dude thank you thank you thank you so F!#$IN much bro.

This saved old build of mine, I got wrong the FC orientation, it was stacked under and I was trying it wrong the whole time. Thank YOU!!!

thanks helped me start my drone for the first time its often the simple things that are  wrong

Man i was starting to give up until the First GYRO aligment and i realized, “hey maybe i should take a look at that” and realized it was a full 180 the wrong way… Man thanks for the help!

I wish I had seen a video like this early on. I have had almost every issue you talk about actually happen. I had to figure them all out on my own. It can be very frustrating. Great job, and you make me laugh a lot 😂. Thank you.

Thank you for your video.  As a totally newbie who has built my first drone, this was invaluable.

Thank you so much for posting. Finally can fly my drone again thanks to you. Definitely earned me as a loyal subscriber!

Great video, new guys are lucky to have you!

thankyou sir, this is my first drone build and you helped me out.

Very helpful.  Thank you!

You know... I've been in this hobby for 10 years, and I'm usually a Bardwell guy... but dude... I had a mob6hd and couldn't figure out what was going on to save my life... you saved it. Thanks. Just shows you that there is always something to learn in this hobby.

Thank you very much! That motor direction button solved the problem)

Amazing video I had to go almost all the steps but at the end I could make my drone work, thank you so much

Thanks I put the plate upside down...the arrow was facing down and the drone was doing a turtle.

THANKS SO MUCH I somehow had it on 90 degrees offset and would have never guessed. thanks!

agree. hard to believe he has so many viewers without chapters. i didnt bother to watch this video and go find something else

lolol, it gets you every time man!  The old "is it my quad or is it my smoke stopper" troubleshooting on a new build.

Well thank you for checking it out!! I just hope it helps someone out there who is trying to get their quad in the air.  Nothing worse than having a new toy and seeing it flip out as soon as you got to use it :(

You are very welcome, and I really appreciate you watching!  it is a whole different world with all of the helpful content that is available now.  Nowhere near as much head scratching and forum digging, lol.

You are very welcome!! Just glad I could help you get it back in the air :)

I just hope I can help a few of them out! :)

 @BaconNinjaFPV  You definitely are bro

amazing video! fixed my problem!!!!

Thank you sir!

Very valuable information. Ninja to Ninja. I thank you.

Dude thank you! I rebuilt a drone a few weeks back and its been flipping when taking off. All the motor directions were good and props. turned out it was the fc orientation that needed tweaking. You are a legend

OMG thank you so much dude this video real helped me a lot

Great video it helped me with my 03 titan build. Appreciate you brother thank you.

Nice video. Lots of good tips.

You have solve my issue thank you

Thank you mate <3

Thanks man, finally got an old model in the sky this morning that I had built months ago hahahaha. Guess I kept putting it off to the side after I got discouraged and focused on other builds. Your video helped me methodically check it out again and viola, my 5 inch is hovering perfectly above the ground😂

Thank you so much for your help brother. I got a brand new quad and I couldn't get it to arm. I had a super frustrating week. But I finally figured it out using betaflight configurator and watching a bunch of videos one of which was this one.

Nice work dude :)) the frustration was resolved promptly...  motor direction, how did that escape me%/... many thanks
Oly

you help many thanks🙏🙏🙏

Quad flies, thank you🎉

Very informative! I had to replace my props after a crash and I put 2 on facing the wrong direction. 

I got them swapped and I am good to go. Thank ya very much!

you saved me thanks a bunch

Thanks ,  you help me fix my drone .

Thanks helped me out 🎉

Great video i know this happens too many times i think people want to see their quad flying right away lol .

THANK U SO MUCH !

Awesome!!!! I am so glad I could help! :)

Thank you!!!  Yeah, always an exciting moment right up until it flips over and disarms itself, lol

Thanks a bunch man. My quad was flippin the hell out and I had changed the motor directions and everything. It was the flight board orientation!! It wasn't offset enough.
Your a lifesaver man! Thanks!!

I think I have had most of these issues happen to me as I have been learning the last six months or so.  It can definitely get frustrating sometimes but that feeling you get when everything works and you get to fly is amazing.

Thank you for the advice! I tested motors and realized I had accidentally switched two wires on one motor and realized that when testing the motors. It would only ever rotate clockwise. It was throwing off the quad from lifting  off. Finally fixed and had my first flight today on my first build.

Thanks for this great informational video I had flashed the firmware so my board alignment was wrong I would have at some point thought to check but just googled the issue and this wise guy (not a guy trying to be funny) had made a video so he also got another subscriber that day and yes I also hit the bell to keep up with future content 2 thumbs up dude. THANKS AGAIN!!!!

LOL on my first build,I experienced almost all of those items you mentioned! Great video! Super helpful for people new too drone building.

Thanks Bacon! Not sure why SpeedyBee V4 shipped w motors backwards and board direction set to 90 degrees but we did it. V3 was fine :face-blue-covering-eyes:

Thank you so much. Change motor direction as you showed on 8:12 helped me.

You f*ckin' genius! Wish had found this video earlier, have just fixed my indoor whoops for the winter and will fix out door quads for the summer. Agree chapters would be good. Both you and JB have really good presentation style for Americans, as a dower Brit can't compliment it enough, compared to the of TicTok whitterers that the missus watches. This is much  better. Keep up the good work.

Thank you^2 I was at a loss why my Nazgul would violently spin on the Yaw axis everytime i started my drone. Then you mentioned re-calibrating the flightcontroller and yep, the drone didn't react to yaw movement. I calibrated it and now it's fixed. :)

a newly built drone can do a barrel roll for other reasons too.  I personally had situations where one of the engines gave such vibrations that the FC was unable to work normally and this caused the barrel of death.  in the second case, there was one propeller installed backwards, which caused a downforce on this propeller, which in turn caused the barrel of death.

Thank you! It was a feedback loop of vibration to the gyro! Looked for a long time what the issue could be.

Reason #7 motor order!

I'm still trying to figure out my issue, lol. Instead of taking off, my custom built decides it wants to vibrate around like an old washing machine, before rebooting itself. It used to happen the moment you armed it, but lowering the gain significantly helped there.

Been there done that. Helpful video for the beginners. My most impressive incident and why I stand way back on first arming with props on, just 2 props on wrong. Bottom mount lipo on the original Hawk 5, I never heard something scream so loud as it tried to level itself on arming. As quickly as  I armed disarmed it destroyed the 2 rear props grinding them on the ground. Needless to say I quadruple check my props before arming. And I still can screw it up. 😂
Happy flying everyone. 😎

Another great video thanks BN

Great guide and tips for things to check for first flight and troubleshooting.  "Little meat sticks" 😆 
I was a victim of the reverse prop direction on my first build. 😆 Now that is one of the first things I check after a new build.  🤣

Great vid dude. I always twist my arms side to side after crashes to check if they're compromised or internally fractured. In the past its been the culprit of high throttle oscillations, even though the quad appeared to be fine.

Thank you very much… mine was board orientation

Great video i did get my board centered correctly now but it still does a flip almost like its in turtle mode even tho it isnt.

This got me 90% of the way there (orientation etc.) but my new build is a cinewhoop with a flipped fc so I also need to remap the motors: 1><3 2><4

awesome that you got it figured out, and glad I could help!!! :)

it is allll worth it when you finally get it in the air and feel that freedom!!  The ups wouldn't be so up without the downs being so down, lol.

I feel your pain brother. I'm at this stage right now where I've been frustrated for almost a week and I finally got to arm my quad.

well at least you got them all out of the way at once! lol.  I sure do hope it helps someone out there get it figured out quicker.

That is awesome!! I am glad it was something simple that got it fixed up :)

Lol, yeah on the 7" I destroyed the rear two as well...concrete and props don't mix.

Done this too 😆

Thank you for checking it out!!!

Thank you!!!  Gotta keep your little meat sticks in tact :p it is for sure one of those things that only happens to you once before it becomes something you check every time, lol.

the ol' twist test is a great thing to do!  That one has caught me many many times.

You are very welcome!! Glad it was that simple to fix :)

I just finished a 7inch build the other day and my first flight issue was having my props mixed up😂 ended up shaving a little square in the lawn and a bald spot😂😅

my newly build quad is doing the freak out on take off but ill use this video and hopefully i can fix this issue. Will give you an update... thanks so much. P.S: Im pretty new to quads and building, It is my first build also.

that one time at drone camp i thought my frame was sound until cio fpv 
pointed out delamination on my bottom plate. i didnt believe that was what was causing it until i tried a new frame...lolo    great content

for me it was the fc orientation, thanks!

Thank you after betaflight firmware uptade on mamba h743 V4 my gyro was not calibraited

Hi. You are the boss! Thank you. My 3inch apex build did the flippy thing as my boarded alignment was set to 0. Changed to 180 and now its sweet. Thanks again as this was my second build and had not seen this before. Cheers.

Mine is Yawing like crazy :)

I just got a pre build from flywoo and got some angle issue not arming . I think i found the issue i re calibrate my remote from dji and check in beta flight and seem to working fine. Will test it outside . It's not very complicated but Thanks for your channel sure help us a lots a good place to go if we have issue. W juste did a 15 days trip in minus 15 degree winter and i sure tested all the quad and ran into all the issue possible 😁. Keep it up awesome channel

Hello, thanks for sharing all the great experiences, I am having an issue, see if you can help, I builded a drone with some really high powered motors, they are overpowered for that drone, thing is its taking off really fast when I go a point up from the mid at my throttle, but before that it just stays on ground. How to make it smoothly take off....

Yeah I just flashes 4.4.1 and my quad is flipping out. I just happened in this video. Super helpful! I have some direction now. Thank you.

Could you please solder a flux capacitor to your quad and make this video for me 2 years ago?  Much appreesh, homie.

I am going trough this issue again after I purchased someone else’s build from eBay…

Got my drone working thanks to you well at least it flys now now just have to fix the analog video seams to start flickering after moving a few feet away like even 3 ft away think I didnt screw the antenna down enough might have fried the video chip gonna try buying a new one it lights up and sends video but its super buggy

Pretty late on this one but figured I d see if anyone knows.   Just finished a 2.5 inch cinewhoop build with a F411 stack.  It arms up fine and sometimes gets off the ground and hovers for a few seconds before cutting out and dropping, then the motors start spazzing on and off and get really hot, other times they spazz and dont even get off the ground.  When it does fly all the controls seem to be moving the right directions.  I ve tried everything I can think of , only thing that looks off is the fact the orientation of the board in beta flight shows 90 degrees right but the board is actually pointed forward, that seems to be the only way thats right though

My issue was the last in your video. I have a Whoopfly 16 I wanted to try a tinywhoop from my Cinelog35v2 and 20...man the shit sounded funny and took part of the popcorn ceiling off 🤣 I was dyin cuz I tried it twice! Still laughing watching your video thru lol. I suspected the pid tune but who knew lol

I mount my escs and some times fcs backwards. Forgetting to change the settings for that def is a non desirable effect lol.

when i arm my dron give throtle and it launch in air when i lower throttle it wont go down you got to disarm for it to go down

When you said maybe the quad is cracked I looked my quad over and guess what lol, the frame was cracked it's still not flying properly it won't fly off but I have to figure it out I still can't figure it out. I did everything and checked twice this gofilm 20 is just not working no matter what I do lol but guess and check and check some more I guess.

Just recently after 5 years in the hobby I had an situation where after hitting the arming switch the quad did nothing. I could not figure it out. Now this is a plug-and-play quad. That means I put the receiver in. That worked fine and lit up when I plugged in. What I forgot to check was the channel mapping.  It had been defaulted to TAER. I needed AETR. It really is the first thing I look at usually but I had forgotten to check it since I had not built it. So the FC thought the arm switch was on channel 2 but it really was on channel 1 the way I had my switches set up.  It had me getting angry until I went back into the Receiver tab in BetaFlight. I saw it immediately and breathed a sigh of relief. I still do dumb things. 😅

So technically even with props on and I am holding it down, it's the same result of it thinking it needs to ramp up to get lift, right?

Lolol, you were exactly who I was thinking about with that one buddy :p

 @BaconNinjaFPV  ha ha it always helps to listen to people who know more than you.., i can be hard headed at times

glad you got it figured out!

You are very welcome!! Glad you got it figured out :)

Hey, glad you got it worked out!!! It is always fun when a build flips out on you for the first time, lol.  A little terrifying too.

Ah the ol' flipping out after a flash thing.  A couple of places to start on that one for sure would be the motor direction stuff and the board alignment settings.  Sometimes in a flash those aren't set by moving the older CLI over and it can absolutely get your quad going crazy!

 @BaconNinjaFPV  that's exactly what it was. Got it working again after fixing the motor directions. I had to figure out why my WiFi quit working when I plugged in the battery (I have a weird set up where I remote my desktop with my iPad. No monitor!)

yeah, that will get you a good old intsaflip every time, lol.

lol, yeah I have had that one get me too!  I usually check all of that, but I guess at some point I got comfortable as it was always AETR every other time so I stopped, and that is when I found out not every one of them defaults the same way.  At least it is an easy fix! :)

Lol eu tentando entender porque o meu acelerador está louco lol

Thankyou m8 ive been scratching my head for a few days as my quad flys fine in 4s then in 6s wood shot off to do a moon fly by 
(Aos3.5) Following criss ross build advice 2 finger tight on frame screws wad the problem wrenched them screws down and now she flys 
P.s have you moved platforms where did you go

I am having trouble with my throttle issue.

I swapped out a blown aio board on my crocbaby5 and it flew away when I tested it. Still haven’t figured out why but I’ll be taking a closer look for delamination. Thanks for the grease.

Mine was working fine then I got an rpm filter error that wouldn’t go away and I updated BLHeli and now it won’t take off, the motors numbers are right and the props are right

I run into that issue on my first build and I thought I did everything correctly….
What happened: I first take care of the motor order and spinning direction. Than I realized that the FC direction was wrong and after adjusting that… I missed to reorder the motors again! Tata Dead Flip (thankfully nothing bad happens)

But for all: Double Check everything, even if you think you did it, sometimes some changes impact something else ☺️

PS: I really like your content and footages!

When i do a motor test in beta everything seems to spin correctly and the motors push the direction they should when moving the stick but soon as i try to take off without betaflight hooked up it gies haywire

so my pitch and roll axis is fine but it does not yaw at all, but when i calibrate the accelerometer it fixes this issue...although when I unplug and plug my quad back in it causes this issue to persist until I calibrate it again

I have a meteor75  that won’t stay bound if you turn off it says telmetry lost
Plug it in  telemetry recovered  but no stick response unless yo rebind
If you open the throttle it goes wide open with props and won’t slow down
What have I done wrong

My new build, puts one motor on full throttle when i arm it, with and without props on, what could the problem be?

its seems im totally screwed i stpuidly updated  my tinyhawk freestyle  now  i cant get bavk to how it came .

yea my drone spins and shutdown like yours so .. my orientation is correct .. so I reflash and put on 4 blade prop and it flies fine now . Im surprising that my 1407 4022 Kv Hyperlite has discontinued so its bitch to find so I endup ordered 1 Emax 4100 kv 1408 and it flies fine cuz one of 1407 got fried smoke up.  anyway yeah ur vid helps thanks

I have a question please. why do drone bounce to height when sway stick controller. What is it cause?

Hi! My last 3inch babytooth 1s (out of 5 now) just flies to the moon as soon as I arm it with the exact same pid/filters as the other ones. All are on BF 4.4 with rpm filter on. The Only difference is the BMI270 gyro where others got mpu6000. Stock BF 4.4 tune solved the issue for this one but I need to tweak it now to get the best out of it….

@bacon ninja fpv my drone flies fine in angle mode but when I try to take off with air mode on that’s when it shoots to the moon. So I put air mode on a toggle switch so I can fly in angle with it off but as soon as I try to fly in air mode it’s instant full throttle 😕

I have experience the second problem and still have not solved it yet, my drone does not throttle down even when I put the props on, it did the same thing when I have and have not have the props on and I have no idea what going on with betaflight, please someone help me

I have an issue where my speedy b60 amp just accelerates and runs away from me. It'll try to hover at the 5.5% idle on arming but as soon as I tap the throttle it accelerates to 100 and does not come back. It will fly away till it crashes. Even if the throttle is 0% it won't stop claiming

Sweeet intructions,yep props on upsidowwn freaked me out even if it was on baby ape! thank you for the wisdom bro.be safe

Hi, I have the problem number 1. It just keeps flipìng over again and again. I do not have a smokestopper and the blades are on. Am I missing something. On the goggles it says throttle runaway

Why does my drone run away when I arm it I have a tiny hawk freestyle 2😢

It could absolutely be frame damage!  I would also check and see how much give your stack has after that swap since sometimes over tightened stack screws can have a similar effect.  Hopefully it isn't anything too serious, and you are always welcome for the grease my friend! :p

the BMI for sure tunes a bit different than the MPU.  Personally, I like it a whole lot better :)  I find that it takes wayyyy less gains to get the job done, so you might try some similar tweaks but just roll them back by a bit.

 @BaconNinjaFPV  Thanks Beacon! I’ll give it a try!

oof, yeah that is always the tough one.  I suspect that when you are kicking off from angle mode into acro/air mode the PID controller is taking over and whatever resonance you have going on is pushing it into a feedback loop.  Are you running the stock Betaflight tune or something else?  Also, if you want to jump over into the Discord server myself and some other pilots would be happy to dig into it!

I am having the same problem now, how u solved it?? U just described my drone freaking out

 @ygorm3982  I don’t think I ever fixed it honestly, I flew in air mode. I know I used acro for a while. But I do remember changing my props around cause they were in the wrong orientation on the wrong motors. I don’t have the drone anymore or I’d look into it for you. My ex kept all my stuff in the divorce after she cheated as well as my kids imagine that lol. Getting them back in March tho😂

lol, yeah and on the small ones it is even easier to do by accident than the bigger ones.  Thank you for checking it out!!

Mine quit mid air after I tried to rip it to 100% throttle, death spiraled all the way down

The props in the wrong order was my first quad build "take off"... 
Luckily I did catch the problem soon enough and corrected it. The next beginner mistake was not tightening the props nuts hard enough... crashed quite bad... new VTX is on its way in the mail..😂😂😂

What about airmode,  I just don't use it on my builds because the first time I ever did the thing kept spooling up after I raised the throttle. Is that normal, is there any reason I shouldn't be able to use airmode?

This was no help at all, but I appreciate. Motors cut off when try to take off.

so my pitch and roll axis work fine but my yaw does not, although whenever i calibrate the accelerometer it fixes this issue...but whenever I unplug and plug my quad back into betaflight the problem is back again, any idea how to fix this?

I have done everything right but it always throttles up and up and starts to go higher even on throttle hold and at low throttle as low as 10% it completely goes 1000% power and freaks out any help plsssss

What was the problem with drone in the video you showed at the beginning? My drone does exactly that but i can’t seem to find the issue in the rest of you video. Great video btw!

Why do you turn off the accelerometer?  Sprinkle some bacon bits on the reasons to keep it on or keep it off.  Thanks

So I tried everything, and yes some props were on the wrong way. Fixed it (100% sure that's not the issue anymore) but the drone on lift off still goes bonkers. Cant get it up normaly it just crashes, flips over, spins, all off these combined. 

Only thing I notice is that while testing the rotation 2 props strugle rotating. They rotate a bit then stop then repeat. While the others continously rotate.

When I arm the drone they all rotate seemingly equal. So no idea.


ANYYYY idea's? 

I use the Mobula 8 from happydrones.
With a radiomaster Boxer. 
All brand new.

i had a crack in the big part of my crux35 arm and it was just hanging on by the little brace bit and it tried to fly away, another time it did it when i delaminated an arm a bit too

Why do you turn off the accelerometer?

I’ve got this weird issue: brand new nano whoop 2” O3 build and all LOOKS good lol. When I go for a LOS it was SHAKY AS HELL so I disarmed. Checked BF settings to ensure all was stock and it was. Made sure nothing was touching gyro and tuned off bidirectional deshot bc it was only thing I changed. Second flight it was OK but then after few seconds it seems to throttle up out of nowhere, this has never happened to me! So strange..

I built a new quad with a frame I made, and it's probably super noisy, my quad gets light, then it becomes extremely uncontrollable and starts oscillating and runs away, should I just crank the p and d term to like 150 or something?  It's already at like 80, and it does even worse at base pids.

I figured it out, it was acting so much like the fc was incorrectly orientated, I went back in and looked at it.  I had a non standard mounting it was turned 45 degrees so I thought I had corrected it,  but with a -degree term, I guess that corrected it but it was still turned off and didn't take which I didn't notice.  It was turned also in the graphic, it wasn't turned into the screen which I guess it has to even though it was responding correctly.  I fixed it by putting in a 315 degree term in the yaw.  All fixed and flying wonderfully since I really screwed with the filtering and pids thinking that was it.

Great video. This may be a simple question to answer but why would the motors spool up when the throttle is at the lowest point once the quad is armed? Thanks

Issues binding - works in Betaflight 4.5 but does not arm(HDZERO Mobula 6 ECO and Mobula 6 Freestyle)
I bought BNF HDZERO Mobula 6 ECO and Mobula 6 Freestyle and I also use Radiomaster Pocket. I managed to update all of them to newest ELRS and setup binding phrase. Both Whoops bind and respond to all inputs when connected to Betaflight but then I unplug it I am having issues.

Mobula 6 Freestyle HDZero does not arm at all. I guered it out that this whoop is SPI and does not have wifi.

Mobula 6 ECO HDZero jumps when I push arm but nothing after that. This one strangelly UART and have WIFI.

I watched every Bardwell ERLS and Betaflight video and many other tutorials. Spend hours going through manuals with ChatGTP 4o but despite numerous troubleshootings - I was unable to make it work. I am getting feed on my HDZERO Goggles and telemetry works on Pocket. I also have Boxer and Zoro and the same issue with them too. At this point, I learned a lot but still unable to make it work.

So just finished my build. And everything was fine for a few min. Then it fell out of the sky. I tried to rearm it and nothing happened. Power cycled my quad and it was fine-ish for the rest of the flight. Sometimes when i give it a little throttle i can hear a sputter and it wants to fly away by itself until i move the throttle all the way down.   Im running dshot600 but its able to run dshot 150/300/600/1200 multishot and one shot 42 and 125. If i changed it to maybe dshot300 or multishot would that help?

I can’t even connect to betaflight

I thought it would be fun to put a betafpv f4 controller on my inductrix fpv.  However when I arm it, it hops up, spins in yaw then Shuts off and drops… have you seen this before?

So do people leave their smoke stopped plugged in? I only plug it in once for about 5 seconds for the very first time I plug in a battery.

Hey Bacon Ninja i have Eachine lal3 for the past 2.5 yrs and lasy week i tried to fly it and it wouldnt. I armed the motors and hit Thr and increased the the power and it would not taleoff. I uphraded the firnware and that did nothing. I used blheli and i made esc 1 =reversed 2=normal,3 =normal 4=reversed and i placed my props accordingly. The Betaflight motors are reversed so the esc is corresponding with bf and the quad still wont fly. I switched the props 4 with 2 and 1 with 3 still no flight. Can you tell me what im doing wrong here as I've been trying to get this qiad flying for 1 week to no avail? Id appreciate your time.. Great video by the way!!

The wrong order is a pretty common one!  They don't really give you many indications of the direction the prop is supposed to spin when you are first starting out, so it does happen a lot.  At least you got that first bit crash out of the way early! lol.

That problem at the start there was props on in the wrong direction :)

I meant the one where it jumps up slightly and disarms but kinda twitches on the yaw at the same time, that one in the intro

Really I just turn it off to save the small amount of MCU cycles that are used to poll it as part of the loop.  Since I never ever run angle mode or anything that would involve the accelerometer, I figure I may as well get that little bit of clock back to use on filtering delay.

frames and fly aways seem to be related to each other pretty often, lol.  I have heard of that happening on the Crux35 pretty specifically in a few cases, and I have had quite a few arm delamination's myself on some of the frames I run.  Always a good idea to rule out some things and take a really good look at the frame when weird stuff starts happening!

 @BaconNinjaFPV  the crux is great if you keep it under 200g, once you start pushing 250 it starts to struggle with tuning and durability, but i just got my aos3.5 in the mail yesterday and finished builing it last night so got to fly it today and it flies so much better, the iflight version i had to express post some to me from an aussie seller because my frames from cnc drones still in limbo with aus post

Good question!  I turn mine off on boards with F4 processors to save processor cycles for more important things.  I never use angle mode, and that is the primary reason for using it so it doesn't really do me any good anyway.  Might as well turn it off and give my PID loop a little more wiggle room on the processor :)

Interesting. I used to fly my tinywhoops in angle and just kept the same model profile, so now angle mode is my "oh shit" button.

hmmmm, it could just be the thrust to weight ratio making the tune go a bit crazy.  On a 2" whoop the weight of an O3 is going to be quite a bit over its disk loading capacity, and that will make even low PID gains flip out pretty bad.  Usually I have to de-tune those kinds of builds wayyyy down and make them really unresponsive to get them to fly smooth.

hey, glad you figured it out!!  That board orientation has bit me more than once.  Pretty awesome that you build your own frame or it too!

Great question!  It is going to depend on if you have the props on it while it is doing it or not.  With props off, that is a totally normal thing to happen :)  The motors spool up but since the flight controller isn't getting any response as there are no props on them, it spools them up endlessly thinking it needs to correct.  If it is doing it with props on though, totally different story.  In that case it could be that you need to calibrate the sticks on your radio to make sure zero throttle is zero throttle, lower your idle rpm percentage or rpm value if you are using dynamic idle, or make sure everything is mechanically sound with the quad as it could be gyro feedback causing the start of a fly away.

 @BaconNinjaFPV  thank you for your advice, in this situation the props are off. I haven’t flown the quad yet and I was concerned it would take off once armed and never to be seen again.

for that particular problem, I always start by trying a few different USB cables and a few different USB ports.  I also sometimes check with another PC just to be sure.  problems with BF connections can be a huuuuuge pain unfortunately.

Im sure that took all of the fun right out of it :(  with a yaw spin run away, it will usually either be a motor direction issue or a board alignment one.  I would double check both of those things and see if they are causing the problem.

They all for sure do the same thing you are doing.  Just long enough to catch that first startup past the tones and make sure no funny business goes on, lol.  Leaving it in all the time would shut the quad down as soon as the motors spin up at arming basically.

hmmmmm, is it just flipping out or not doing anything at all?  You might hit me up on Discord if you have it (server link in the description) so we can work through it in a little more detail too!

Hey Ninja i figured out the problem, after i changed the ESC swtup i didnt chanfe the props to reflect the esc change so i swapped the front tips and the back tips and she flew really well. A newbie move i guess but yes shes flying great.. Thank you for your help!!! ❤️

Motor direction was wrong on a new fc I swapped in, fixed it in BLHeli. Is it the same if I toggle direction like you showed in BF?

My new rekon3 was on BF 4.5.0, idk why, but after I went to BT 4.4, it has a bad wobble. It has these oscillations just hovering.

I have checked everything you have said and yet mine sometimes throttles up full and launch’s or it throttles up full for 100th of a second and shuts down! This is on its maiden flight not being plugged into beta flight? The board is  a f405 aio 2-3s beta flight fc for the pavo20!

hello can you help me please!! when I fly like 4 feet it is getting crazy I don't know what's the problem I hope you can help me

What about if it takes off but around half throttle it cuts out and bobs up and down in the air like angle mode was on and you're trying to land? 🧐 also the first page on the pid tuning tab, yaw pitch an roll I cant adjust

Sir i am beginner and when i arm the drone it goes little bit to forward direction itself

Hey Bacon I just got a brand new happymodel mob 8 and after binding I arm the motors but when I throttle up the quad starts bouncing and acting erratically while trying to hover?

Im one of those cats that made sure motor 1 is cw, 2 is ccw, 3 is ccw and 4 is cw. Also the props are on correctly except i did norice that prop/motor 4 was lifting that corner of the quad but woukd not fly at all. I did the motor direction and double checked all 4 motoras are turning in the right direction. So all i get is motor 4 lifting up a little and yawing to the right so i am stuck and dont know what to do next. A little help would be greatly appreciated as this Iflight baby nazgul 73mm is making me crazy.. Any help would be appreciated! Thanks for the awesome video. I look forward to your reply. Harry Lato... It was the 4th prop it was ccw instead of cw. She's flying great now!!

How many of you sometimes look for a tree to hide behind when first testing a new build? 🙋🏻

Hi quick question ⁉️ 
My drone flips when hovering. After hovering and giving throttle the drone drops.. any advice? I have a feeling it can be a bad Motor

200th comment. 

All to say my quad is fixed. 

Gracias cheers and all that shit.

Why do I only get a clear picture when my goggles are 5 to 6 inches from my drone? Am I stuck in pit mode? How do I get out? Thanks.

Great info. I hate you. only if you made this video two years ago.  I spend weeks wondering why my smoke stoper keep tripping. Then I spend a few more weeks wonder why my quad would take off before I applied throtle.  The answer to the first one I got from discord. They made me feel a little silly. The second one I figured out on my own from the comments in a youtube video That made me feel a little better. I not going to tell you how many FC I bought to try to fix these problems. The good side is I have not needed to buy another FC yet!

I just built out that same frame.  I havent decided if it is going to stay 2s or 1sLiIon as I initially intended.  it flies great as 2s and like a drunken turkey on 1sLiIon (but not so bad with a whoop battery)  what motors are on that?  I have 1103 11000KV because thats what I had available

Hello, I hope you answer

My fpv drone has no mechanical problems. Beta settings are beginner level. Flight mode is angle. When I give gas, there is no problem in stable horizontal flights. But when I cut gas for a while at high altitude and fall, when I give gas again and recover, there is a shaking sound in the drone and it wobbles. Maybe there is a short-term fluctuation in the power of the two motors on the right.
Can you give me a way to solve this problem?

I have done everything that you told, but my drone is still flipping when i try to throttle up, the board is an f405. Idk what is happening, please help

Sadly none of your Tips solves my problem. Thanks for the video though…  I still get flip over after increasing throttle. I double checked every single point you make. Arming all seems and sounds fine. But already after lift off the quad pulls to the right side, freaks out and flips over. No clue. Can bad soldering lead to this as well? I have no short though and all motors spin… Have not touched PID settings.

🙄 I know it's something easy.. But it's driving me crazy.
Motor rotation props out.
Props on correct motors.
Board alignment correct.
Orientation shows correct on Betaflight and SpeedyBee App.
I tried twice to launch forward slowly and it pitches backwards! 😂😂 AHHH!!! 💩.
One new prop is now mildly chipped.
🙄 welcome to my world. 🤣

Thanks for the video.  YMZFPV lighting came with the gyro with the incorrect orientation.  Not a smooth first drone experience 👎

I didn’t think I was gonna find help for this one but this video hit the nail on the head.. I updated to 4.4 and my board was set 90deg when it needed to be 180. Which makes no sense to me but it flys now. Thanks man

Yeah the BHLheli way is for sure the long way now that BF has a motor remapping and motor direction function.  Give the BF way a shot next time and see if you like it ! :)

hmmmm, did you happen to take a CLI backup of the config or load a CLI dump from the manufacturer after flashing 4.4?  It seems like maybe the tune they had on there is no longer in place since a flash wipes that out.

 @BaconNinjaFPV  I went back to the 4.5.0 and loaded my backup. Still shooting up to 90'sc temp. My luck man.

 @BaconNinjaFPV  I haven't crashed it, nothing. I've just hovered inside, in a cooled room. Mid 90"s Celsius too. Fock😪

Same dude same

did you ever figure this one out ??  My new build is doing exactly this.  Just starts to get off the ground and the motors cut out, and lose all power, they also get really hot fast

I don't know that I can for sure fix what is going on since things that happen when you are already in flight tend to be wayyyy more complicated but let me give you some places to start checking!   Since it isn't freaking out right off the line, we know it can't be prop direction, motor direction, board alignment, or any of the other things from this video.  All of those would cause an immediate issue.  Usually when you are in flight and start getting run aways, it is due to vibration feedback in the gyro and over-compensation by the flight controller.  That could be caused by mechanical issues with your quad, like cracks in the frame, delamination on arms or plates, missing screws, a tightly mounted stack, lots of things.  I would start checking there first.  If that doesn't turn up anything, then there is likely an issue with your tune or filtering so I would roll back any changes you might have made to it or somehow get back to either betaflight defaults or whatever the manufacturer shipped it with if it was a bind and fly.  Im sorry I can't just tell you exactly what the issue is, but I hope some of this helps you track it down!

hmmmm, if it takes off and does things weird in flight that aren't straight up trying to fly away on you then it is most likely something wrong with the tune or filters.  Usually if you can't adjust the PID value numbers then that means it was set up using sliders, and if you cant move the sliders that means it was set up using the numbers directly.  Had you flashed a preset tune on it, or were you still running a stock/default tune on it?

 @BaconNinjaFPV  right on brotha thanks, an I had a preset betaflight tune on it all was well. Buttt now there's another issue lmao, my receiver isn't comunicating with my fc Lool. I flashed 4.4.1 on it (speedybee f7 v3) an set it up how I had it before but no luck. Granted the pids are back 😂

Do you happen to know if you are in angle mode?  If so, it is likely that you will want to calibrate your accelerometer so that it doesn't drift forward :)  If you are in acro, then you might make sure your radio doesn't have any trim set on the pitch axis since that will cause you to drift as well.

 @BaconNinjaFPV  I am in angle mode and I have calibration many times.

I found the pid rate setting was turned off and according to the user manual it should be set to RPY so i did that and the quad is now behaving as it should. Not bad for someone who makes it a point not to mess with the pids. 🤔

Obviously the folks at the factory forgot to enable the pid rates... 😢

hmmmm, so just one motor spinning at all then?  Or are you getting all of them spinning but just lift in the back corner?  It sounds like you might have something going on that is quite a bit more complicated than the scenarios in this video.

 @BaconNinjaFPV  yes Bacon i think ill have to reinstall the operating system because the motor 4 is turning but when i give it a little thr it yaws to the left or right. I double checked the props cuz i had a similar problem like this before and by chsnging prop 4 it fixed the prop issue. What i dont understand is thats all i did to to the quad... Nothing else. I'll keeo you posted.

Hmmmm, if you can get it in a hover before it drops there is a good chance you are having a desync.  Usually that means the motors are either spinning too fast, or there is something going on with the ESC reading back EMF.  What motor size, motor kv, props, all up weight, and voltage are you running on this build?

Sorry it took me a minute to see this :(  Usually that will either mean you are in pit mode or you have a connectivity issue with the antenna on your VTX.  For the pit mode bit, just go into betaflight and the VTX tab.  In there you can click off pit mode and that should get it out of there.  If that isn't checked, you might want to look over your MMCX on the antenna and make sure it is completely seated with a firm click.  They can be a little sneaky about being loose.

Thanks. Just dropped it off at the shop. I'm new to this. Beta what?? 😄 Thanks again for answering.  @BaconNinjaFPV 

lolol, I am surprised I haven't seen a whole lot more video covering this same stuff!  We won't speak about all of the FC's along the way....and how much money that must have cost :p

lolol, a drunken turkey.  I could totally see that for this kind of build on a 1s LiIon and the amps per gram those things put out.  I am running the FPVCycle 13mm 1S motors with 11400KV and doing a motor output limit and tune with auto cell count switch for 2S.  I do find myself flying it on 2S a whole lot more than I do 1S though.

 @BaconNinjaFPV  I was going to put RCInpower 1202.5, which is the same size as the 13mm I assume since FPVcycle has silly sizing.  but I had the 1103s in hand

Sound like regular ol prop wash to me. Is airmode active?

I have a radiomaster pocket, elrs version.

you get this figured out? think i'm in the same spot right now

 @wmfbmp5743  Sadly not yet. I paused this project for a moment.

....😳
Well.... Now I know that Ethix Limon lime props color doesn't determine the prop rotation.
😆😆 front prop direction👍
Rear prop direction ❌
You keep the color on one side.😆😆

oh, yup the color is one of each rotation and that has gotten me a couple of times. lol.  At least you got it figured out!

@logs7 
How did you fix this ?
My ymzfpv lighting is having issues as well.  Freaks out when arming

 @Leakyfpv  sorry for late reply the board had come stock 90 degrees turned to the right.

that board alignment seems to be the biggest one!  sometimes from the factory they don't come with what you would assume is a 0 degree alignment to the arrow...but some weird one that is super necessary.  Flashing usually removes that and you kinda have to guess what it needs to be, lol.  Wish the targets would center the arrow to 0, but I don't think they ever will.

Mine is only with sharp stick inputs and I can't figure it out...

Thank you so much! This info was invaluable!  I was about to desolder and start all over again with my build, but luckily I watched this video and realised it was just my smoke stopper tripping.  Took it out of the chain and she sang like a dream!

very helpful man. My gyro was oriented wrong. Hope this works! Brand new 7 inch build. Been flying for a while, make some frankencopters, but this 7 inch was the first all new, from scratch build ive ever done.

What’s up 🥓🥷That was a great tutorial this will help out a bunch of people, I had experience with all off them. And some times I still put the props on wrong 😂stay safe everyone

Lama , ga langsung

Please get to the point half with your videos

My drone is still doing those stupid stuff 🫤i did everything I could but now there nothing I can do about it

I honestly have to go Google what discord is. I'm not very up to date with tech these days. Then I'll have to YouTube how to use it lol.

 @american7169  lol, totally understandable!  First thing I would try is setting your demag compensation to high in the ESC configurator for your type of ESC.  If that doesn't do it, I would go down on the master slider in the PID tab by 4 notches or so and see if that fixes it.  If that PID adjustment does it, then your tune is too hot and you can work that slider back up by one click until you start having issues again.

hmmmm, that sounds like a motor is having a desync issue when you give it sharp commands or possibly that your PID tune is a little too hot.  I would be interested in what the build is, what kind of rates you are running, and what that PID tune looks like.  Hit me up on discord and we can chat about it in a bit more detail :)

The first quad that I flipped over due to a bad gyro orientation was a 7"!  Its always one of those sneaky little things, lol.

Thank you my friend!!!  I only did the props on wrong thing once...but man has board orientation bitten me a few times, lol.

what exactly is it doing?

 @mrmoon_fpv  now I have removed the gyro and it’s flying normal . Before when I used to put it on full throttle, it would stall and fall . The gyro was also not working properly

