If you wanna know what LENGTH your port should have, check out:
"What is the best Port length?"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RDEEm-JW7ic

Finally the youtube algorithm suggest something i WANT to see

I only watched a few of your videos yet, but so far i love them. I love how u break things down and go into depth on subjects. It really has taught me alot. Keep the videos comming and I will keep watching. Thanks for all the advice.

Finally something I actually want to watch.. Thank you

ported enclosure sounds good on bigger speakers but I always like the passive radiators in motion also it only need less box size.

Best video on this topic I have seen, ty!

Very accurate, great detail and description. Good video bro. Keep it up.

Thanks dude, this was incredibly informative, like most of your vids ofc!!

... definitely one of those critical aspects, often overlooked in DIY's...

can you make a video on how to design a subwoofer box?

4:22 Mmmmmm~~~~~ Thank you man, I really enjoy the video. highly appreciated.

Good work

Very imformable content! 💪

Good explanation thank you

The information here has been proven over and over and never fails. I’ve seen videos of these kids with these new subs with higher power and they think they need a bigger port.

This really helped. Thanks man!

Long live the BOSS,finally I got what I need,god bless u

Below the tuning frequency, ported system acts like open back enclosure. To maintain some back pressure on the driver I find keeping port area to be 1/4 to 1/8 of the driver cone area works the best. Of course there're systems like Altec A7 where port is much bigger than the driver ( but driver has reasonably stiff suspension that supports the driver cone )

Thanks for this tutorial

i would like to see experimentation with adjustable port size to demonstrate it, with various musics and tones.
Great Video, and thank you kindly.🌺

Dude, something is completely off here... with that calculation, a tiny *ss box with 5,45L would need a 5cm port in diameter, which makes 0 sense. What makes even LESS sense, is a 6,8cm port would match with a 10L box, while both the industry and knowledgeable DIY builders use a singular one of that size for 30+ L boxes. I don't buy this.............

Thank you lol 🙏🏾

this is a good video

Lol. Yup

Bro I had to look this shit up

Yeah after 1 year

ditto

heh cheers

 @Dakoustics  seriously

 @Dakoustics  any idea about tapped horn subs by Danley? I seek to make 1, 12 inch.. I need highest efficiency @45hz onwards

😂😂😂

Depending on the  subwoofer.

kilamanjaro Mountain yeah, not by much though. The Thiel small parameters are different from sub to sub, but as far as the box size to port size is minimal. Certain subs play better in different box tuning but for the most of it you build a box for 2 12” subs with box volume 4.25 with a slotted port of 16W/3H/22L you will be in the ballpark of a tuning of 32HZ give or take a frequency or 2.

Mark Godfrey it’s not the port size to the sub, it’s the box size. He even showed that 2 different manufacturers are using the same formula.

 @jasonneal  4 years later but manufacturers use their own subwoofers to do these calculations. In reality, each subwoofer will have its own port area range to play around with.

Mark Godfrey exactly. Certain subs perform in different size boxes than others, but the formula for port area is the same

I have one DS12 EVL. In a 2.7c box I want another one though. What's the best ported box for spl I can make. ?

6:43 
SECRET INFORMATION

2:27 B&W 600 lol

I built a 100L sub tuned to 20hz, and used a 9.9cm/ 3.875" diameter port.  Then I built a second version using 2 ports that were the same 9.9cm diameter.  Comparing the two, the single port design had noticeable low frequency compression @80dB+, and the THD measurement showed a peak of 10%+ from 20-30hz.  The 2 port design had no compression at 80dB, and THD was 2% at 80dB.  (The sub is built into a full range floor standing speaker, so I have vertical height for tubes the full length of the port.)

Good job thank you

Thank you brother for very informative vedio 🙏

Learn alot from this vid thanks

Thanks for this information brother. I truly know how This sound travel makes a big difference.  Brace on the port.  Again thank you ✌✌✌✌✊✊✊✊👍👍

Nice good stuff

Thx from Italy 🙌🏻

Thanks brother from India

Nice 👍🏻

I have designed a interchangeable box and port system for those of us who don't like to hear the same sound in our music over and over,besides depending on what you are playing,,rap,rock,theatre etc.--you want different outcome from your driver enclosure...maybe you could do a video on that someday...good work man...keep on.

Thank you

4:20 is my spirit animal 😂💯

Thanks man, my 400 pages Book on how to make your loudspeakers wasn't that clear

yes there's a math to the correct port size .. I owned a custom car stereo business back in 80s 90s we built hundreds of sub boxes we called it tuning the box ..the port is crucial to the specs of the box and cubic internal air space also is crucial  also depending on the speaker used

I think it all depends on your goals ur driver and vehicle, if u r firing into an open cabin jt will vary then if u have it dead against a back gate

Thank you.

Thanks!

My girlfriend has a box with a large port and she's always saying the length does matter , can I just tell her if the port was smaller then the length wouldn't be that important because it would travel the full distance quicker and would seem like there was more there coming out then there really was eliminating the need for all this and that extra length and size and stuff well her response was to go to the neighbors and see how much sound they can get him pushing in and out of it

How did you learn this? What did you study?

You sound like you know what you  are talking about bro..
Would u recommend  pairing the JBL S2 1224 subwoofer with the GS PT 112 Ground shaker Box- slanted ported ?

Yup people always forget about the vehicle which itself is an enclosure.  So you should tune your box to the vehicle size.

 @ASSOpid  finally someone mentioned it.

It's been 3y, is your neighbor still over there pounding 😂

That made my whole day 😂😂😂

😂😂😂😂😂 brooooo

Present me your girl

Good

To eliminate all the above problems use a sealed baffle.

I like the sound of an overly long port. In fact, I mounted some tiny speaker cones at the end of some wrapping paper tubes, and it sorta sounded good! (A little echoed though.) the resonance frequency of the smaller one that I had was 58hz. I could not tell the bigger one though.

For a ported box or 4th order bass reflex box 16 cubic inches is great but that number is different for other boxes like a 4th order bandpass box where you would want more like 20 sq inches of cone area.

Alot of this also depends on the environment, loading, and cancelation.

I have no idea!!!!but I'm learning tho but I can build the hell out of a night club sub set up

Just like aiwa from the 90's and early 2000's

Good video. Also. If you go for say 3 smaller round ports instead of 2  larger round  ports the 1st order port resonance goes up

I've been doing alot of wondering about my port size I built my box with a tuned to 35/36 with 129.5ci port area (7"x18.5") for 2 American Bass XR15s on a 2k amp, the box is around 6.75cf and on the low low bass it sounds killer smooth,clean and hard hitting but the long test tone higher frequency notes I get a ton of nastyy muddy boominess that is unpleasant and uncontrolled sounding, I plugged the port and it sounded Awsome but I lost about half my output... unacceptable. I also screwed up when building my box I put the port in the center vs off to one side like the plans and took the 12" rear leg and made two 6" opposing legs but forgot to make the width half so each side leg has the same port area as main center port making my tuning 35/36 vs 29. Any input would be appreciated...

I got amazing results by mounting a full range 4 ohm 5" dia. speaker in a thick cardboard tube fully sealed. Powered by a 5 watts per channel 8 track tape deck (Muntz brand).

The barrier is called vortices.

This video is infinitely easier to follow than the others. Thanks!

A large or small port depends on Thiele-Small parameters of the speaker and what frequency Yuit want the box tuned to.  Flared ports are always helpful.

Im building a 5.25" pc drive bay speaker out of styrene plastic and 2x 3w creative drivers out of a creative travelsound 400, im opting to rear port it and am going to make it rectangular as these seem to work best in my experience, the port will be exactly half the width of the enclosure. these little drivers sound absolutely beautiful with a PAM8403 5V class D amp, the amps are tiny and pack a punch, ideal for drive bays.

I'll try

Thats to get you in the ballpark. Actually ideal port area is based on xmax, power and tuning you want to model it out vs taking a blind guess based on general recommendations.

Actually i didn't understand.
Tell me if i want to make an enclosure of 1.5 cubic feet to tune it at 32 Hz.
What will be the dimensions for both round ported box and slot ported box?

When I decide port area I usually run a sweep in Hornresp at maximum passband excursion and observe the particle velocity at each end of the vent that will peak at the tuning. If it's above about 25m/s I will try and enlarge the port and add length, or at least flare the entry and exit if this is not possible. Of course, if I can easily fit a longer port in, why not? This ended up with 32 sq inches of vent in a kappalite 3012lf 3.3 cubic foot box tuned to 40 Hz. It is my opinion that a lot of speakers are underported, particularly a lot of hifi loudspeakers and bass guitar cabinets, and even some budget PA subwoofers - if you see an 18" with little plastic ports....

So, summary is big port better than small.
Like 👍the video

hey man, love your info. I have two of bowers & wilkins ccm382, i like to make my own speakers for each side of my TV, how can i calculate how big the speaker box should be?

Passive radiators?

I noticed this too in different port set ups that I heard

Yeah.. The NSX-999 mkii have two ports in one box the smaller one the bigger one which have same length and sound good about 24 yrs. and still working, listening to it..
-QUALITY SPEAKERS... AIWA

Nsx s 94...same ports

But would it give you a longer bass hit

Below are some notes I would like to make. I'm aware it is essentially a novel in length, but when you're passionate about a hobby that is just what happens. lol

1.) Xmax is normally a figure of one-way travel, not Peak-to-Peak, also not to be confused with Xmech for those who are curious. 

2.) The ports themselves shouldn't generate 'wind' (Air Flow) or essentially displace air from the port volume, it usually occurs below fundamental tuning due to the rise in velocity prior to the reduction after once you've extended well below fundamental tuning. Rather the most idealistic scenario is limiting vent velocity so that the column of air within the port resonates with minimal surface/ cross-sectional area resistance which would cause turbulence. 

3.) Port Area's relation to Resonance is correct, though what is largely important is driver selection, this will be covered after the next statement. There is a caveat here, where you move into the B.V.R. [Big Vent Reflex] territory. This is a hybrid between a Bass Reflex, and Quarter Wave Pipe where you're coupling the net volume, chamber length, port volume, and port length for the fundamental tuning which if done correctly will significantly increase damping apposed to an average net volume and less lengthy port than a BVR. Within Horn Response, you can view the Impulse Response, or export the Impulse Response to a .Wav file and make an audible comparison between enclosure adjustments to get a rough idea for Impulse attack, sustain, decay and release. Prior to doing so, it is best to use the Filter Wizard to set the theoretical subsonic filter and low pass filter to get a more accurate representation of the transient response. 

Back to the statement about driver selection mention prior. The drivers' damping factor is incredibly important for more accurate transient response achieving less of a muddy/ boomy response near tuning, though a note to make is that you have to also account for Lossy Inductance [Lossy Le] which for most mobile audio drivers impact them heavily having a rather high Le:Re ratio. The higher the inductance is in relation to the Impedance of the driver the more resonant the driver will become due to the back EMF generated by the coil. Though, 'most' Home Audio, and Professional Audio drivers feature shorting rings, pole sleeves, bifilar winding types for the coil and/or non-conductive coil formers to limit the amount of inductance present. 

4.) Though a suggested 'Golden Rule' for In² per Ft³ isn't a bad start, if the program used to simulate/ design the enclosure is capable of it, keeping tabs on Group Delay, Vent Velocity, and Diaphram Displacement, keeping each as low as possible while maintaining a more linear acoustic power profile is most ideal for most applications outside of SPL. 

As an addendum on the topic relating back to Lossy Inductance, this will shift most mobile audio drivers largely off of what would be optimal without taking it into consideration. It isn't a perfect method but has been measured via RTA in 1/2 Space Radiation in comparison to the simulated result and from our findings, it closely follows the trace with Lossy Inductance calculated. With the additional driver resonance, the enclosure usually has to sacrifice its smaller footprint to increase the net volume, counteracting the peak above fundamental tuning that is caused by the abundance of driver resonance. This also makes many drivers fall outside of the acceptable EBP region to be 'ideal' for a bass reflex alignment, and for those shooting for a 0.707 Qtc Sealed enclosure, it can actually be impossible in some cases. 

Just here to clarify a few things and present some ideas that most are not aware of. I'm not trying to step on any toes, just explaining what I've gathered over the years since I have been pushing to learn as much as possible within the acoustic engineering field. At the very least it'll steer those who are less technically inclined in the right direction not to overshoot or undershoot port area either because they aren't aware of the effects, or they've been told by others to do one way or the other and end up with poor results. So for that, thank you.

Thanks for the info!   May i email you with some questions?  Thanks

Very good video. I tend to like 12 to 13 sq" of port space when I'm tuning for deep bass 29 to 32 hz. If  I'm tuning a little higher I'll shoot for 14 to 15 sq". But to each their own.  It's a matter of what works for you. And just to help those out that don't know you just simply multiply width times the height of your port to get the square inch of it. If you want 12sq " of port space for example you will have a 3 inch wide by 4 inch tall port if you had 1 cubic inch of airspace in your box.

Medium ports have been good to me!                  “commented before I watched” thanks man I build probably 10 to 12 box’s a year an have always wondered but just used common since to keep it strong an quiet!

if i have an 18 "speaker ... how to determine the box volume and port on the speaker box ... according to the data on the speaker ... thanks

My method is to use 2 or even 4 ports, I think that this is a solution to mix pros of both methodes. It working very good. ;)

Video topic suggestions: restive port and passive radiator :)

I don't care what spec the enclosure is there is "ALWAYS" going to be a compromise with it.... every single time

Can you give me some measurements for a box. I need a box for my Escalade. I'm putting 2 15 inch subs and they need 10 cubic feet of air volume. Can you send me some measurements please sir. I'd really appreciate you

👍👍👍👍👍

Soooo. Ummm. What if my box doesn’t have a port?

If you use WinISD or any other program that can estimate port velocity, try to keep it under 30 m/s (100 ft/s)

It all depends on your specific speaker measurements... It is not like you can make it big or small at your will

I've gone by the enclosure volume to determine port area but I've heard about using cone displacement as well to calculate it as well. Both can be applied and I think it all boils down to the application and skill level.

Actually WinISD shows the air speed at different frequencies so you can change the diameter and check the speed so no more calculations is needed

I have twin 8" ports for my single 18. Sounds great. Plays anything i send it accurately.

I got that one 12" Alpine w Alpine Amp. Just enough for me. 2005 Tahoe !!!"

I'am of Perú, the symbol  ^ ft = foot cubic. Thanks you

You can make 3x 5-7cm small port's, if is a big port not possible to make or the sound are not that what you want.
A little bit longer time to work, but the result Convincing.
I'm testing it passive radiator with 3x 7.5cm ports and my reaction to the first sound was only a "WoW", it was not possible to make one big port, not enough space/distance from speaker magnet to the back side of the speaker box with the ports, in the middle not possible to make a port, but 3x small port's like triangle around the magnet.

what about for a 2x15   Guitar cabinet???    it has 3" holes ...... 2 of them.     Seems way to much air escaping,   what do you think?

DJ Slow N Throw damn what language is that!? Lol I hope I will know what your talking about one day. I’m learning as much as I can. But I love your music btw!

 @THESUBZILLA   Just the language of a passionate audio enthusiast. The reason music hasn't been coming out is that I'm sufficiently enthralled in enclosure engineering as Subsonic Center Enclosure Engineering. I have been producing music in the background though, should have some new videos in the future.

Love it DJSNT!!  A comment just as accurate as his beats!

This proves that making rebassed musinc is not as simple as it looks,you have to know every single aspect of both the driver and the enclosure. A great lesson from djsnt!

Yes and no. There is too many variables to make a rule of thumb for anything. Drivers are now so freaking capable, that I now started using bassreflex just for cone excursion limiting, not much anything else.

Just know your subwoofers Xmax mm and Xmech mm then it will help, higher the better.

@DjSlowandThrow, do you recommend any reading material?

DJ slow and throw. Thank you for sharing.

Ill follow your Facebook link

Wow. Now that is by far the best tip I’ve ever seen on a comment. Thank you. Just gave my inspiration for car audio a 1000% boost.  Thank you a keep up the awesome advice !

Drivers are usually overdamped (qts<0.707) and hence are not the limiting factor for transients. The rule of thumb for port size vs. SPL is keeping port velovity below 17 m/s. An aerodynamically optimized port might handle more before compression and tuning-shift sets in, but that will have to be determined empirically, i.e. building a prototype and testing it to its limits.

Perfectly reasonable, learning from experience is a great way to learn things you don't forget.

at 5:00 am I do not understand the comparison, and what is the meaning of the medium port?

I'd like to give a resistive port a try, which I assume you mean the one which is like a big flat panel. Also I have an old sub which blew, and I was going to make a passive radiator box for it, but I might wait and get some proper passive radiators for a sound quality sub build some time in the future, budget permitting. Cheers for suggestions!

Agreed. succinct. done

100 ft/sec is much too high! It should be no more than about 55 ft/sec. Port compression occurs well befor chuffing becomes evident.

 @marthax.korver3401  for most people I doub't it will be a problem. Could you perhaps show some tests?

 @marthax.korver3401  it is still quite high ... actually what WinISD recommends is at 30m/s but so for my design i always target it no more than 15m/s ... but at the expense of a giant size box ... but better safe then sorry

 @marthax.korver3401  port compression is unavoidable at high displacement regardless. Yes ports compress before the turbulence becomes audible but that's the way it goes. That's the price you pay to avoid the one noter sound. I want a port to counter roll off down to a desired note.. not necessarily create a rise to that point. There are some good aes papers on it. Xx

I designed ported and 6th order bandpass and for a full power signal at tuning, the port velocity is usually around 25-30m/s but it will rarely see this value on music. It's basically the lowest value I could get with reasonable sized ports that fit in the box for the tunings I want. I also prefer to have port lengths and box depths less than a quarter wave of the highest frequency of the subwoofer to avoid organ pipe and back wall response anomalies.

 @TimpBizkit  When you say the highest frequency, do you mean the absolute max frequency or a frequency at some dB?

 @TimpBizkit  for bandpass boxes it is better to have larger ports or use double ports because that is the only path the bass will escape out from the enclosure unlike ported system ... you dont want to end up a system that is totally unusable after you done with ... give a little more room for adjustment when dealing with bandpass enclosures ... (give slightly more volume when building it) ... so you can fine tune a bigger box by adding some packaging to reduce volume to bring back to the target response ... remember that having a box that is slightly too large is easier to deal with a box that is too small

For subwoofer duty, when you consider the capabilities of today's drivers, it's difficult to stick to that 1/4 wave limit and still use vent vents that are large enough to reduce compression and chuffing within the driver's linear capabilities.  This is why I've shifted to using offset TLs instead of simple vented designs because with that type of design I have a lot more control over the impact of those 1/4 wave resonances.  I haven't designed or built a bandpass design in a while, but the last one that I retuned was able to minimize the impact of the first 1/4 wave resonance, the result was a build that had the out of band noise around 15dB below the passband.

WinISD is a good software and it is a must have for those people who likes to mess around with speakers and enclosures

I've heard cone area for 4th order port area

hi but what its the optimal air speed for lower frequencies?

what if i lead port into a pipe out if my room like an exhaust 😂

what is the best port lenght?

Have you ever done a video on port length, port shape and port placement/location?

Building a box for a customer following manufacture specs. 3.75 cubes 42” square of port space for a 15. Port seems big to me but we will see what happens.

small port is strong vibrate to the box  big port is smoot nu vibrate to the box..

My subs only have (15" planet audio)13mm and (10" power acoustik) 15mm of excursion. That huge port may have been recommended because of your giant excursion # ? Though I'm mindful of subs specs I lean towards the larger port size, My rough general rule For 10s and 12s I use 4" and for 15s I use 6" ports or close combo equivalent. When building slot ported boxes I keep the general size rule in design but can be bigger or smaller depending on the so many factors . Also I prefer my built auto sub enclosures tuned around 31hz to 34hz , so my ports are a big factor . I'm currently pondering a single 15" with 2×6" ports that will be like 30+ inches long each that will be mostly external and a part of the exterior design for minimal box size(still 3+cu.ft.net.) and a unique look without skimping (I'm bored with plain old gray/black  undersized generic prefabs). Let the subs breath DEEP! I'm "BRAINS over brand " in Tacoma Wa .

upon of the area of the drive.

car audio yes i go 16 but in audiophile builds i go with 14

Có thể Cho tôi xin công thức tính thể tích cho từng loại loa thankyou

Hello , port square inches should be calculated per net internal volume or total internal volume

The Xmax has a very large factor that you also have to determine  !

Damn metric system!

down firing vs front finger

If you have a High power speaker usually have  large Bass port lower  the power  less the bass port

Hello i m from india 
Which is  best low and loud frequency enclosure size and port size please suggest me.....
I have 2 sub 530 rms Svc parrelel 2ohm  to sony Mono Amp 750 rms 2 ohm......
Please suggest me size ...

Please use Schlieren videography + slowmotion to demo the turbulences

Is there any difference between the resonance frequency of the port itself and the resonance frequency of the system (i.e., the box plus the port)? I have come across some texts that describe them as distinct frequencies. Thanks for your help!

Is varation of subwoofer how ohm is and watts but im with big port because have more bass port is Air when sub breathe in Explorer bass exurcion

Anyone know if the woofer diameter matters?  I have different online calculators saying one 4" port should be from 3.8" to over 100 inches to get 25hz in 8 cubic feet.  They cannot all be correct. None ask about the driver itself.  Is a 10" sub going to have the same response as an 18?

Sir, which box if installed in SUV car will give the feeling of bass for a longer distance, ported box or bandpass box, please help me

Then you would just piss the neighbors off.

Nah I think there will be only air moving in and out and no more sound at the end of the pipe

Then you'd lose the point of the port which is acoustic amplification

From what I understand, port placement is not relevant due to the extreme wavelengths that travel through the port.
+1 for info regarding port length tho

I do know that ur supposed to keep ports 3-4" from any exterior walls, thats including when the port extends into the enclosure at the point the air is leaving the port. I believe also stay away 4-5" from any interior walls. Kinda rule of thumb. Port placement is kinda important. Enclosure size and quality and ur port is what makes a good sounding enclosure. Just sayin.

great video ... can you please also explain in your coming videos what will have the influence if a large diameter port need to be very long in order to tune the box low? i mean any adverse effect it would cause?  thanks

the big one.. less air-sounds...

I am trying to build my first subwoofer box on my own with the help of my father-in-law who is your carpenter and has the tools to do all the round do you know flares and 45s and everything else you need to get the air flowing properly I’m also looking in on how to build more complex boxes like fourth order six order stuff like that but you kept it simple which is what I need and give me information on where I can find the dimensions I need for my subwoofer thank you very much I subscribed and liked your video because it is awesome keep up the good work.

Does the position of the speaker upright, slanted, or flat ,has an effect on the sound, especially the bass?

Very helpful, but god damn was it funny when you said "hmmmm" @ 4:20

2 inch  port size

Simply.....
Which one produce good bass effect????

At 6:40, per their website:
"All volumes listed are after vent, and subwoofer displacement; a.k.a. NET volume. 
This chart is for tuning boxes in the 35-40Hz range."

Me, wanting to tune into 25hz range: 😧

The primary issue with using a ratio of vent area to box volume is that it ignores the volume displacement of the cone.  It doesn't take a lot of thought to see that a 6.5" woofer and a 10" woofer in the same 1cuft box might require different diameter vents.  Even if driver diameter is kept constant, Xmax varies wildly from driver to driver, also affecting the total volume displaced by the cone.
A better calculation would be Sv = 0.02032* Fb * Vd where Sv is the vent area in square inches, Fb is the vent tuning frequency (yes it actually makes a difference what the tuning frequency is) and Vd is the volume displaced by the cone in cubic inches (Sd x Xmax).  0.02032 is a constant that will result in a vent area to keep air speed in the vent to ~ 5% mach, or about 57feet/second.  This is good for a quiet environment like in a house.  In a car, and especially one where the enclosure is in a trunk, higher speeds (more chuff) can be tolerated but should not exceed about 9%mach (100fps).

If the idea of a subwoofer is low bass..I would have to admit the lowest bass that I ever heard was without a doubt a sealed enclosure. I will never use a sloppy port system again but, then again I enjoy controllable, accurate bass.

Video top faltou ter a legenda para português

Can i use 4ohm 30w subwoofer instead of 3ohm 10w woofer (stock) in speaker?

4:22 LOL

How would I find my ports displacement?

Small port is better or big port better tell in one word.

how about with elbow aeroport?

Port size should be determined by vent mach, which is determined by Vas and Qes, not excursion, and flares cause resonance issues.

It's nice to see a video that's talking about loudspeaker enclosure design I absolutely hate the ratio 12 to 16 square inches per cubic foot I highly recommend not following this everything else about the video was great

What if we like extended bass notes?

Which port is best for deep bass Subwoofer

Longer the vent, the worse the group delay xx

Cheers, good luck on your future projects!

 @Dakoustics  thanks man. It’s an art in my eyes. Like geometry meets physics.

Its 420 rite now. Literally and figuratively. Fire it up🔥.

5:03 16 square inches per cubic foot, or 100 square cm per 28 litres. Change the length of the port to get the right tuning.

Ah, nice to see some algebra in an example. I've had theories tuning frequency affected vent diameter, though not seeing solid examples elsewhere online. One thing to note, is tuning chokes the driver, and makes it much more difficult for it to reach Xmax at standard power, although the 0.02032 may already consider that.

I had a seal enclosure that drop extremely low but as a former box builder, 4th other bandpass are the loudest and lowest sounding box there is

@GudMusic4Lyfe

The loudest and lowest is not the most accurate or best sounding though.

My man, preach, you can't go wrong with the same cubic feet of airspace when you double the surface, and double the power, and take the port away. It's worth the extra cost if you want maximum musicality. As a musician, I could never go back to a sloppy ported design, and yes I can hear the slop in those low tuned max spec airspace"sq" ported builds, every one of them. Ported ruins the impact and transitions of intricate drumming as well. Music needs to be right, and sealed can slam w enough power.

What do you recommend?

Can u explain

To me ported box sounds better sounds more natural. And hits harder

I don't know if I'm wrong but when you used the vent diameter calculator you entered 60mm for Xmax which is insane because that means there is 60mm of excursion in either direction giving total of 120mm and mechanical limit would be absolutely insane. Xmax of 30mm would be much more logical.

You need to look at Port Velocity in making a decision

So let me know what is good small port or big port

depends on speaker wattage power

can you please give us a simple chart like 8 inch speaker then the box should be length in to breath the port should be dia and length. if the speaker is 12 inches the box should be length into breath with a port hole in size. it could be approximate to get the best with what we have. regard from India

Mine is 25.7mm

What is conclusion ??

So which is better?

Does this apply to 4th order bandpass boxes for cars?

I think I got to go number 2 hahahah

So which is better bass

🔴Does 16 sq inches per cubic foot also apply to aero ports, if not is there another number.

Lol I'm just gonna build the box and hope for the best 😂

Passive radiator v port

Is it possible to devide the area of the port.

what online calculator are you using?

16 square inch to 1 cubic foot does not work for lower wattage and lower dispacement sub woofers ?
Dd 9.8 in
Re 3.6 ohm
qEs .75
qMs 2.36
vas 39 L
Fs 32.3 hz
Xmax 5.7 mm

380 watts RMS
a tube port 3.63" diameter 29.92" length is enough to keep port velocity below 17 meters per second
but its cross sectonal area is 10.32 suare inches
going up to 16 square inches (4.513"x47.05") brings the port velocity below 11 meters a second

Is the box area example before or after adding the port?

I always do about 1/3 cone area unless going above 1500-2000 watts per driver then about 50 % of cone area , pure spl is different your talking one note , so 100% of cone area is fine , I have built many boxes and a lot is trial and error

Brianna 285 it does hit harder, thanks to the port itself

yeah, derped on that one lmao, but I know of 3 subs capable of such a feat, Ground Zero GZPW 15Xmax, I've seen the MTX 22" Jackhammer do it from memory, and possibly custom Sundown Audio Team Neo 18".

Amen I hate the port area per cube rule. It ignores driver displacement as you say and more importantly driver Q factor and sensitivity which sets the volume. Xx

Yeah bro I totally get you. I tried to read that novel above your comment and I just scrolled down, seen your comment and was like "yep that sounds about right" 🤣🤣🤣🤣

​ @MegaCraig28  I literally have a small port so my next box will have the wider sub port period an I like the bass when loud 🔊 so about the 2

Me too it’s getting complicated 😂

😂😂😂shit gets so stressful sometimes

Mr Charlie, can you please elaborate a little deeper, i dont understand whats the cone area. Can you please make an exaple on for 12'' woofer under 1500w and above, thanks

So say I'd want 5-8cm wide flared ports on a Celestion TF0818. What length is ideal?

If I were to use dual ports, would I be correct in thinking 2 ports of 23mm or 1×30mm? Sounds wrong.

Im old fashion, i never built a slot port. I have always use PVC pipes for my ports. The longer the port, the lower the sub will play.

 For 12" subs I use 3"-4" Diameter ports, for 15" subs I use 4" diameter ports and for 18" subs I use 6" diameter ports..... my ports never whistle or build up turbulence

I like the video btw

I have noticed this. I had a Yamaha surround speaker with two tiny ports, less than an inch wide, and 2 inches long. It had a 4 inch woofer. The issue: not tuned well. Muddy sound, port chuffing. The ports are literally cardboard tubes glued to the front particle board panel, so the ports even have a little lip on them that is smaller around than the port itself, which just makes it worse. Same thing with many Onkyo surrounds. Funny thing is, the ports on the speakers from many of the cheap “all in one units” mini stereo systems from the 90s and early 2000s (Sony, Aiwa, Jvc, etc.) are actually tuned extremely well!

Degital design chart for the port? Is that for sound qaulity bass or spl bass?

I've use manufacture specs for port length and width.

good day sir thanks for a knowledgeable video.  may I ask what is the best dimension for an 12" L ported box design?

Which is best

Medium size port and medium sized box 📦

What would be the best for sq?

What software do you use?

if you're increasing the area of the port.. doesn't this also affect the length as well... if so what ratio?

Sir just correct me if i am wrong. Example i have a total 2.75cu.ft of the box. Am i right? My port wide is 2.75” and lenght of 26”? Just correct me sir if i am wrong of my coputatuon for my width 2.75” width?

What's the calculator link address (at 41secs) please?? I had this, but lost due to computer failure. Thanks.

Ok so what’s better?

Small pipi Big pipi

5ltr box port size?

why are the lengths of ports too long?

hbsa

Nice video I’ll be testing out the port ratio, thanks

καλησπέρα σας να σας κάνω μία ερώτηση αν το μεγάφωνο των τοποθετούσατε ανάποδα ο μαγνήτης έξω από την κούτα είναι σωστό ή λάθος ....ευχαριστώ πολύ εκ των προτέρων

Best to flare them no matter what diameter size

What would you do for a 8 woofer 11/2?

My rule of thumb is 4" for 12", 6" for 15" and 8" for 18". All flared obviously

Most of all it depends on the speaker and brand

A slot ³" x 18"H x 27" L in a 6+ cube box is the best general port I've ever used. It was by accident I found this out but trust me it works

For 6*9 and 6inch woofer what is the size  of port?

diameter or radius?  a 4 inch port for a 15, and 6 inch port for an 18, is absolutely ridiculous. I would never go smaller than a 6 inch port for a 15 and 8 inch port for an 18. Either you're using very low power, or drivers with low xmax, because you will get noise with a port that small on high xmax drivers on high power.

 @mitchellroberts7954  you dont get wind turbulence using the sizes i explained. As mentioned, we flared them all. I hit a 153db using a single 15" DD 715 using 1300 rms with a 4" dia pvc port. No whistle of anykind. Of course all the sizes i mentioned are the minimum recommendation. Too big the sub wont pressurize like it suppose too and too little the port will whistle. Even with a small port, when the enclosure is in your trunk you hardly can tell its whistling. I have heard many systems when they pop the trunk its whistling but in the listening compartment it sound good and you can't really tell... of course if you're using a 4000 rms sub i recommend 2" bigger but for the average joe, those measurements are on point!!! every 15 or 18 doesn't need a really big port. I speak for myself but i never own a 3000rms&up subwoofer. I hope to change that and experiment

Yeah, some can be good. Its possible they started high, and work their way down with cost cutting until consumers start to complain, possibly they were still getting good reviews. A video will be coming out soon with me complaining about typical modern ported subs if you're interested.
Also, regarding the tube, it'd work as a quarter wave transmission line if you haven't heard of transmission line enclosures. Basically, they tune around:
 340 / (length in metres* 4)
So, for a 2 metre transmission line, it'd be 340/(2x4, or 8) which is ~42Hz.

 @Dakoustics  I’m familiar with most of this. My favorite subwoofer is a 10 inch front firing driver with an extremely low resonance, heavy cone. It’s in a box that measures approx. 34.3x 34.3 x 38 cm on the outside. Approx. 3.8cm should be subtracted from each of these values due to wood thickness. Flared rear port measures around 7.5cm wide, 16.8cm long. It goes down to 28hz cleanly, but perhaps not super loudly. It’s great in a 3x3 meter room, but not much larger than that. 
Do all these measurements work out?

That is dumb

 @slow_rednline4874  👀

it depends on what the sub specs are and what vehicle its going into. for example if the sub needs 2.5 cubes and you were given a box dimension thats too big to fit in your trunk then it would be useless. you will need to give measurements of the opening of the trunk (LxW) and the depth of the trunk to have an idea and lastly what frequency do you want your box tuned to

ENRIQUE SANCHEZ winisd pro

surface area to length ratio should remain the same, so if you increase surface area by 25%, make the port 25% longer.

Kerim you killed it. 🤣🤣🤣

If you email the manufacturer, they will tell you exactly what size box and port to use to get the best sound for the size speaker and amplifier you are using.... Kinda takes the guess work out of it, just saying

I just want a slim dual 6.5 inch subwoofer but there’s none in the market. so I have to custom make one and now I gotta learn a lot of things to do things one small project fml

I made a box container a subwoofer, all-range speakers and a pair of tweeters. 
I have 2 ports where air goes out/in, but the pressure from the subwoofer seems to push the all-range speakers out also.
Not noticing any effect on the sound though, but would it be a massive problem those move along?

If so, would just add another port to release pressure be the best option? Or would it sacrifice the bass?

I think that the xmax was one way. Where you put 60mm, it should’ve been 30mm

According to the chart at 6:35, mine's too small.

i just keep my ports to the size where port velocity is not too high. under 18 m/s i don't seem to have any problems. usually i end up with super silly big ports tho. but i don't realy mind. you can add a thin screen material into the port to stop unwanted resonance, however it fucks up claculated tuning. but thats not realy an issue. I prefer my subs to be back-to-back isobaric boxes and use a dual chamber bass reflex setup , the veems style one. usually i end up with a pretty bulky box, but it gave me the best results sofar.

i made a box completely ignoring the consequences of turbulence. tuned to 24hz with a small diameter 2ft long port that made a massive amount of turbulent noise. luckily for me it was in a sealed trunk and i never heard the noise allowing me to achieve stronger dampening at a low tuned frequency. i meant to tune lower but whatever i did ended up producing stronger resonance at 24hz which i was happy with nayway.

Br

I there is something wrong in your video on 0:27 sec. 60 mm XMax  is huge number that I don't think is very popular as you describe it . This means the woofer membrane is going to be able to move over 2 inches out and 2 inches in .  Can you please give an example with a speaker with this abilities that is really popular.

I hate bass reflex speakers, for me the best tight not boomy bass came from infinite acoustic suspension speakers.

Nice study. More important is to read and to practice. In manny cases, your home is not prepare acoustic and the sound is not proper like you want even the loud speakers are the best from the market ! 
I have the occasion to use AUDAX loud speakers . Are very good , the kit is good but the project proposed for the boxes was not good.. very high , the width of the  front pannel to small. In my home the sound is not very good.
So acoustic , you need to made some measurements and to prepare the room for a good sound.
The seccond you need to have the audio spectral frequency  measurement for the each of the louds speaker used.

What's important (and the original purpose) of a port was that it STARTS (at the back of the driver) the size of the driver, then increases in size (preferably radius) by at least 2x - by the time the channel exits (port opening). Should look like an ice cream cone : ) Listen to your small phone speakers THEN put a funnel right on the speaker and watch it get 3 times louder 👍

@0:39sec which website is this

This is not a problem if you hold it ounder 25-30ms of delay att max power. Winisd is not akkurat.

Come back my chaneell 🙏🙏

I think the small one is better because with that size port it will build up the pressure, don't think the big one is better.

Dak whats up Brother?

Hind translation pls

Question this is great for sound quality and I'm not into SPL but I do you like to move hair. Can having certain size ports increase my chances of having a standing frequency in the vehicle for hair tricks? I know this might be a little vague of a question but any input would be welcomed. I would like to do it with ported boxes because I don't have spacing to do anything but I one-to-one fourth order inside of my cab

Why not just look att port airvelocity in Winisd and make sure its under 17m/s, if not do a flare or a bigger port

Just as it was mentioned in one of the comments below, manufacturer recommendations very often lead to unnecessarily high tuning. There is no single box and port size that works the best for every kind of situation.

Well it's good to know you're not just slapping them into any old box. Knowing is growing.

I built an enclosure for my camp trailer. I used 2-6.5 woofers and a aero port 3” by 12” long and wow impressive sound from tiny guys

Best option is to make chambers behind the speakers being pushed out. It can be hard to tell a difference in the sound, though if the speaker is pushed too far it could burn out. Adding another port will only change the frequency they are damaged at, not reduce it completely. Making a bigger box can help, though best way is to not use the shared air space.

eh yeah, but there are a few rare gems capable of 60mm linear one-way Xmax, craziness

Base port size on vent mach. There is no go to port size/area/volume:driver ratio. Port size should be based on Vas and Qes and Fb.

Acoustic suspension is the salesman's way of saying sealed box enclosure. I also must disagree. Having both sealed and ported enclosures in my system, they both play their part.

Yes, environment is often overlooked, with high end speakers being in a less an optimal room, echoes, vibration etc, all of which can make good speakers sound bad, though in a perfect room they can make bad speakers sound good.

That would be a horn, which is similar to a ported speaker in essence, though is bigger, and harder to design, though is louder. Horns are like the ideal port.

 @Dakoustics  Almost... A horn is https://www.amazon.com/Klipsch-Palladium-38-F-ESP-Floorstanding-Speaker-Espresso/dp/B00M9YPM58/ref=sr_1_8?keywords=klipsch&qid=1571919788&sr=8-8 this speaker for example is rear ported. Here is the design I use https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EEh01PX-q9I

Horns are for p a systems and other setups where size of an enclosure dont matter. Old record players were some of the first use this design. But it isnt by any means ideal for every audio system. Most stereos today are becoming more compact do to appeal and practicality as technology increases ,the watts per dollar becomes more and the end result is unideal ports or passive radiators being used along side longer throw speakers and alot more power at a low price. And this is only home audio im speaking of, car audio is almost the same, high xmax and gobs of power to overcome any size restraints.

That's a whole another topic. Something I'd be curious to learn tho.

Bigger the car, the harder it'll be to achieve a hair trick. The main thing is moving as much air at as low frequency as possible, or at least below the tuning of the car. Cars with open windows act more like 4th orders themselves, so playing slightly below the resonance of the car is the best way to move air through a window. Standing waves are more important for SPL. Something I'd suggest, is make a ported box as big as possible. Put 2 ports into it, where it's tuned to something like 30Hz for musicality, and when you want wind plug one of the ports to tune it closer to 20Hz.

No dicussion. In old books the diameter of port should 1/3 or 1/4 of the diameter from the bass Chassis. Okay!!!!

I personally made a lot of tests all based on researches made by audio engineers but I wasn’t satisfied with their conclusions on how to reach the most perfect sound quality and I realized that most of the time the speakers cabinets are or way to small or too big all for packaging purposes and higher profits.....and the others with a more appropriate size and much higher price tag were flawed with electronic components made to last 5 to 7 years.....for as long as you do not use such speakers for a party. Well in my research I realize that the most appropriate port for an excellent base was basically 1/4 or even 1/5 of the size of the woofer but there’s much more to think about and on top of all comes the wooden cabinet (inner size) and in some cases the deviation plates....Of course I could make a video about all this but end up seeing someone do something, put a trademark and finally have a patent and I’m just not the type to let go of such thing. So I sure hope that someday I could finally find a company with people interested in pushing the speakers pattern to the next level. I already have the name and logo for such speakers ( Crownwell) with 3 different series....and the slogan would be really special!!!

I’m so confused right now 😅

60mm Xmax omg

Correct me if I'm wrong but I believe Large ports reduce compression and avoid changes in frequency response at different sound levels. The statement about large ports being boomy I believe is wrong, the enclosure size determines the sound signature of the subwoofer, the port size matters when it comes to remaining the sound signature at different sound levels.

I was told smaller ports hit wider bandwidth and have way better roll off. For example i got a 2000rms sub 35mm xmax. I was told to do 2 cubes and use 24 sq inches of port.. rectangular slot port. Would u say this is too small??

That means my 4ft³ box would only need a 3" aero port thats only 5" long. Seems small, advice anyone?

So by the port ratio in the video I’d need 72 cubic inches of port area on a 4.5 cube box?

Ok so now tell me will oversizing the port help the enclosure do better in the lows? or is that not really a question that can be answered to the length and diameter variables to follow the 16 rule?

I must miss something.. 16 - it's understandable, but what about length?

Apa cuma gua orang indo disini?

I’m not the best with math, but I have 2 18” subs in a 40”x42”x33” box.
And 4 4” circle ports 4” deep. 
Feels about 65hz but idk. 
How would I make it lower?

The only properly damped port is a sealed box.  Any port rings.  The high Q and ringing is how the port produces sound.  The sound from the port is late, crushing transients and sustaining notes that should have ended.  It's all bad.  Ports are by definition have no place in a high fidelity system as they don't reproduce sound, they create a new sound in response to the signal sent to them.  The frequency response shown for ported systems is the response after infinite time.  The initial response of the speaker is just what comes out of the cone driver.  That is the initial transient response.  Plucked strings and drum beats are all sharp transients with exponential decay.  Any ported speaker will crush the transient, reducing dynamics of the music and will then sustain the note too long blurring the sound.   Just say no to low fidelity bass and build a sealed system.  If you want low base buy enough drivers to get the desired displacement and then use a Linkwitz transform to get the low end extension you want without using a port.  Two woofers in a sealed box and EQ beat one woofer with a port every day of the week.

Of course round ports are more efficient, and require less sq in per cu ft. I already knew this. But you didn't say "how much smaller", so I'm still trying to figure out how many sq inches I need with my round ports in a 2.7 cu ft box ?

Multiple small drivers and ports .
I've heard it in practice

Nice lesson but I really want to hear the sound. Every time I watch your video, there is no sample sound that we can hear to compare. I would really love if you can also provide sample audio, not just the theories.

How do you calculate your port length... im goning for spl and have read not to be any longer than 8- 10 inches ... problem is with my port area being right at 8-10 inches in winisd im getting my tuning higher than I would like?? Wanting a spl box with good bandwidth in a accord wagon

What is :  11.25 sq" ?? Thanks in advance.

4:22 Mmmmmm~~~~~ Thank you man, I really enjoy the video. highly appreciated.

Thank you

That's ⅓ of my 20mm NVX VCW154

My BAMF-152 subwoofer is 15mm Xmax but the Xmech  is 40mm that's nice! One great subwoofer for $140

NVX $197 for tax an all

If you meant large ports as in long ports, just read this. Smaller enclosures require longer ports in order to maintain the same tuning frequency, and the port covers a wider frequency range. I'm not sure about different outputs at high power depending on the frequency, as that would have something to do with power compression, and I'm not sure where the energy would be going other than mechanical stresses in the driver.


If you meant large ports as in wide ports, read this.
Large ports is a tad vague, larger than the ratio I mentioned, or a certain port size for a certain box size? Anyway, I've done testing, quite a bit too, different tunings, port areas, as well as watching others, (I'll also mention I forget all I say in this video and cbf rewatching it) but the general hypothesis is: if you have a larger moving mass of air, being a longer, wider port, it will store more mechanical energy whilst oscillating as a part of the resonance chamber, and this stored mechanical energy is dissipated by a decayed roll-off, which can extend tones further than the input signal, resulting in distortion. This large mass also has a rise time, so soaks up some of the initial input power before it resonates at peak amplitude, one of the reasons it's ideal for SPL. Smaller ports with a lower moving mass of air have this parasitic oscillation damped more quickly, and thus shouldn't soak up the beginning of its tuning frequency, and extend beyond the end of the tone, and in between produced an exaggerated tone as a peak. 


So, in essence, large port, efficient resonator, exaggerates its peak frequency and adds distortion; small port is more damped, inefficient resonator, should be more rounded.

 @Dakoustics  intresting answer, ill look deeper into it when i have time, you will hear from me.

 @Dakoustics  Latest reply ever! I forgot about this video but I have been thinking about what you said and I'm now convinced that there is indeed a benefit with smaller ports that I didn't see before, however, I have heard that a common port velocity goal is below 18m/s, what are your thoughts on this?

24"sq is fine, the only real big differences in audio happen when things double or halve, since this is 75% of what I suggest, its in the ball park, if it was 10"sq chuffing, compression might start to become more noticeable. Also depends on your tuning, lower frequencies tend to be more forgiving for smaller port surface areas. Heck, I run 4"sq per cu ft in my 17Hz tuned 6th, though its nicely flared so chuffing is never an issue.

 @Dakoustics  im gonna do a 1.75net 36hz box with 21 sq inches of flared slot port on a 2000rms sub with 30mm of xmax. Do u think this will be ok? I was told using the smaller port area will have better rolloff above and below tuning frequency and give a wider bandwidth

For 4ft3 I reckon a single 6" aero port ~20" long should do, if you're tuning closer to 40Hz or higher maybe even 2

 @Dakoustics  trying to hit 32hz with one port and its hard because my trunk isnt as big as I thought it was

yes for rectangular/square port, can make it smaller, say 50-60 for flared round port

Increasing area increases frequency, increasing length decreases frequency. If you double the area, to keep the same tuning you need to double the length and vice versa.

length can be whatever, it determines the tuning, so for low tuning use up to a metre, and for higher tuning something like 30cm/1 ft

Appears youtube yoinked my 500 word comment so here's it abridged: check amp doesnt have subsonic, check signal has bass in it, ports coould be bigger and longer, program says it's already tuned low so wider+longer ports keep same tune but make it more efficient, and be sure your subs are good for lows, as in some PA woofers although 18"s might be just for midbass, might be worth a video on the topic

a single 6" dia port should do you well, but generally you can get away with 12" sq round aeroport per cu ft

Yeah, I'm a fan of multiple round flared ports myself rather than a single large slot port.

 @Dakoustics  
I remember these triple 8"
Boxes with 4 ports per Chamber 
(Q - something)
In like 08' I left some posts about designing an 8" SQL driver on a car audio  website to the sundown owner .
He deleted my posts 
Years later I saw the x 8 and wondered to myself if I had played a part in that 
I could be dreaming. 
But I remember the punch and SPL that box did my 2-12's couldn't match
If I was building a "do everything "
Box it would definitely mirror those guidelines,  these days for my vinyl set up

 @Dakoustics  how do you calculate for multiple ports?

Yeah, still a young channel, room to grow, planning on revisiting this one but I don't wanna feel like im going for views remaking my most popular vid so soon.

 @Dakoustics  Thank you for considering my suggestion and constructive criticism.. I really appreciate that. Keep rocking man!

I've not heard of a limit for port length before, but you've got 2 options I'd recommend- If you're at or near Xmax, make the port longer. If you're not, make the enclosure volume slightly larger to get the desired tuning.

Valentina Valero 11 1/4 square inches.

60mm ??

16 inch square ??

Ouvrez un bouquin bien fait sur le sujet vous en apprendrez plus et sans risque d’erreur

Love the comment..lol

No port 💪

This video has no option for 240p

How can i contact you?

Can anyone help me out? I have two 2" flared ports i want to use on my diy boombox. Im looking for a resonant fqzy of about 60hz. The enclosure is 26 litres and Im using two 6,5 inch woofers with two tweeters. Whats the right length, cant find anything on the internet. Im new to all this.

Thanks for the good video, but isn't a flat long rectangular port the best option, for it allows enough cross section surface while offering good damping, thanks to a high side wall surface to cross section  ratio?
First time I heard a speaker with a so called "lamellar flow" wide thin and deep port, it struck me how deep the bass frequencies were reaching, without any boominess or ringing.

Best vent is no vent. I went for Ripol, W- frame or H-frame, and never going back for sealed or vented.

can you label your axis and show some formulas?
6:29 Title is reversed

great vid but please its hard to follow.

spoiler: 1L box needs ~3.6cm^2 (~3.5cm^2). 

BUT shouldn't it be cm^3? or Cu cm not Sq cm? Cubic cm would be the volume of the port in relation to the box volume and square cm would just be the surface area  of the opening of the port but without the length of the port i don't understand the relation..

I've been using that 100cm2 per 28l for years, not exactly but almost 😃

Speakers boxes should be designed around your speaker's perimeters, and not the opposite, this information is usually found on its data sheet as Vas, FreqHz, db and EFF. There are plenty of programs where you can just plug this info in and it will give you the exact size for the FreqHz that you desire...With speakers there's no such thing as "One Size Fits All" even with the same spec' s but different manufacturers. I would recommend Thele-Smalls formula to start with an adjustable port tube and a remote controllable baffle. This is what we did back in day while living in Calli and we would blow boxes, windows and the competition apart...Literally.

What if you have two?

Ok so I have a difference question for anyone who can answer. When talking about port size people talk about serface area. This does not cover port length. What is optimal length? Does length not matter? Does the freq change when length is extended?

IF YOU DON'T WANNA LOOSE 8:03 MINUTES.

Big port, flared at both ends.
You're welcome.

Please answer...
I have 12 inch sub for home theatre... The box is 15*13*24 inches  with sqaure port of 2.25*20.25*12.05 inches

 Is the port is good or not.?

Can you say it in a basic way.... Without those cm mm etc

You mentioned a round flared pretty can be less than 16"/ft2.
So are you talking about like 12-14"?

So for the length of the port you just have to play around with it?

16 square inches= 4 inch x 4 inch or 2 x 8...

does for me on PC/chrome, either way the way compression works is if there's just still images it uses next to no data, this video raw uncompressed on my hard drive is 22.4MB

9cm/3.5" each, but depending on the woofers you might wanna tune lower, 50Hz is 15cm and 40Hz is 25cm.

In essence, since round ports have less resistance, they are designed with a smaller cross section, so the air moves faster, which is what results in drag/damping

 @Dakoustics  ok I get that, but wouldn't a thin rectangular port offer both low air speed and high dampening?

Can u please explain, no idea whatcha talkin bout, and i would like to know. Thank ya.

 @fredbradshaw3835  a speaker mounted in a semi enclosed baffle (pretty much free air), placed extremely carefully within a room with regards to the listening position. It is, in that state, a dipole source and uses the rooms rear wall reflection to bolster the low end with constructive interference. The lack of box eliminates cabinet born resonances entirely so the sound is super super clean (as long as the driver is a goodun and suitable for dipole/free air use of course). The only drawback is lack of lack of sub bass. That said... dipoles can be coupled to true infinite baffle sub setups to solve that. Ie subs mounted in the living room wall/floor/ceiling.. with their backsides playing into the next room/outdoors/basement/loft etc. Google H plate speaker or dipole speaker setups xx

We use minimum of 100cm2 per 1000w of clamped power for SPL in here 😃

Working on a Thiele Small vid right now, should be up in a few days.

 @Dakoustics  It appears, you're a person whose on top of things like a "duck on a Junebug" so I won't bore you with the minors that so many designers get wrong with either building or designing custom enclosures. Just remember sub's are more in the realm of being resonant "Air-pumps" than acoustic devices. Thanks for replying, Mike

Two ports with X length and Y surface area each act like a single port with X length and 2Y surface area on the single port. But others have mentioned it can have a higher pipe resonance which means it could sound cleaner than a single large port.

Yes, length determines frequency, longer length tunes lower frequency. The general gist is area is roughly the same per box volume, though length is chosen/tuned by the user and what they prefer.

 @Dakoustics  just to clarify when ppl say port area and port cross section is there a difference?

Uhm.... no. But okay i guess you watched the whole video.

 @tomlademann2521  I did don't worry ^_^ I just been designing speakers for a long time. I still have to study a bit more of bandpass and 4/6th order boxes, still confuses me that design.

Yep, port should be fine, although I'm basing that off the port being  20.25*2.25 inches area, and 12.05 inches depth.

 @Dakoustics  yes.. Thank you sir for your reply

yes, so a 4" pvc pipe can be used for 1 cu ft, and a 6" can be used for 2.5 cu ft

 @Dakoustics  so for (3)12s in 7.5ft³ would need (2) 8” or a single 12"port?

more or less, you can use software to get an idea for how long it needs to be for a specific tuning, but starting long and making the port shorter is a good way to tune the enclosure

 @Dakoustics  So is there no rule or equasion on the length/volume?

Is this the same for normal speakers (not subwoofers)? I am building a custom bluetooth speaker and am trying to calculate the correct port length. My driver is 4" diameter, with a enclosure volume of 0.21 ft cubed and a resonant frequency of 81.4 hz

Thoughts on 4th order port area? Since they are typically tuned higher they seem to allow a lot of relatively short length with a larger area. Cheers m8

How long should the port be?

I have 3 sundowns 15" n I'm making a box 40" wide x 34"deep n 23" high how big do I need a port??? Can somebody help me out!.

Undersized port can help driver keep from unloading under tuning.

What about just adding multiple small ports like three or four?

Do we have to calculate the net volume or the volume of the box? to find the sq cm?

Please what is  ^ft ?   .....

Is that port size from cubic ft of box volume mean the gross volume, or net?

The info you got there from DD about cubic feet and port calculations. Is that before sub and port displacement or after?

What size should i have my JL 13"w7 port?

16sq" = ?? Thank you.

360 sq cm at 100L box... so my 4 ø100mm tubes schould be 2,4m long :D

What port size can you recommend to me for a 12 inches speaker size sir since id like a lower smooth sound? Which is better 2 medium ports or 1 big port?i will wait your answer.Thank you in advance

In other words a smaller port will make higher frequency, than a bigger port?

Yeah cool, but how about 4th order or 6th order Ports, they must be bigger or?
And where on the DD site have you found this table?;)

0:23  bose

60mm xmax dont you mean 30mm. I think your talking xmech! If not ive never seen a sub that moves 60mm one way thats wicked!

high, have a 18 inchs speaker of 600 RMS 1200 watts , what box is good for this bass? I¨m from México city, thanks.

Any port makes the bass boomy.  A much better design is acoustic suspension (sealed box).  You can get just as low a frequency response by increasing the box size.  This gives you "tighter" bass that is better controlled and not boomy.    If you want a small box AND low bass, you can add a tube instead of a port.  Use vacuum tubing in place of a port.  Make it long enough to resonate at the low frequency you need to reinforce and fill it with fiber to dampen the resonance and seal the end.  I did this to a cheap car speaker in a tube and was blown away by the tight, deep bass that resulted.  The tube was about 3 feet long.  A 4 foot long tube would give you lower frequency reinforcement.  Several tubes could be added to taylor the system as you like.

yeah, it should work for any tuning frequency

Dakoustics awesome thanks

I do believe higher tuned ports can have a larger surface area, though I've never seen anyone else reference any numbers regarding it. 
I've seen a few SPL burp boxes which were around  1 cu ft and had 6" wide round ports, which is roughly double the ratio mentioned in this video, but they seem to work fine for their higher tunings.
In my car, with a 6th order, the high tuned port is 6" aeroport into a 70L enclosure, which is a tad below this ratio, though it works fine. I did check to see how it'd perform with 2 6" ports, though port length went from 15cm to something like 40cm, and that was tuned at 55Hz.

 @Dakoustics  Makes sense with the 6th order's high port being smaller, just a reactive way to control the dampening of the box. I was trying out some different designs with a new SA-10v.2 and a smaller 4th order simulated better than it performed. Initially used 2 3" ports around 35 cm long, had a lot of output but bad chuffing even after large diy flares. Just added a 3rd port (they are all external for the sake of tinkering) to get the air velocity down but it raised the tuning from 45 to 55, which wasnt a deal breaker for me in this scenario, but overall output dropped dramatically. Sealed portion is 22L and ported was ~36L after displacement. The sealed portion is the amount needed to keep the xmax inline with rms power (crazy 1000 w lol)  and at this ported section is comparable to the output of a regular ported box after a cabin gain sim filter in winisd, but at the same time never having a lowpass filter because of the mechanically controlled xmax. Long rant sorry, love to hear your thoughts. Keep the content coming!

at 5:00 am I do not understand the comparison.

you choose the length, longer tunes lower, shorter tunes higher, speaker design software such as WinISD should help you decide a length

If you make it the full 40" width of the box, it'd be 5" high, though the lower you tune, the more space in the box the port takes up, so 40"x4" should be an ideal compromise, or however wide the internal width of the box is. Maybe even 3" if you tune around 20Hz.

Thanks bro I will go 4 1/2 port tune around 20 Hertz like u said .I appreciated

 @flakobasshead8159  20hz for car audio fuck that tune to 26-36hz what subs you got?

yes very true, forgot to mention that

 @Dakoustics  it's something I've learned first-hand.
For example a single 12"  playing 25 hz note with a 32 Hz tune with a 4" port vs a 6-inch port in a 2 cubic foot box.
4" is chuffing but the bottleneck of pressure seems to help the driver not bottom out as easily.

I'd assume there'd would be less air velocity through each port with every port you add, which leads to less chuffing. having 4 small ports lined up like you would have a rectangle port would give you better airflow than an actual rectangle port. to calculate the port area you would just add up each port to get your total. having each port a different length will still only give you 1 peak, i say that because my dumbass thought you could just do that and get multiple peaks with 1 chamber and 20 different ports

net volume, just the inside of the box, if the box is wide/flat and has thick material net and gross volumes could differ drastically

 @Dakoustics  I didn't mean the outside dimensions.I was talking about the liters of the port and from the subwoofer. We have to remove them from the volume?

yes, its foot

Hello.....this is off topic but I curious about horn enclosures. I have built plenty of 4th order bandpass enclosures with great success but haven't dove into horn style. Of course I'm designing for car audio so I know those style enclosures are huge. I'm pretty interested in paraflex tapped horn but cant find much info on them. Wondering if u could help me out?

 @jeremyhardee9026  I have no clue

 @jeremyhardee9026  The program I used to design my horn was Hornresp , to be honest I don't know a ton, but my theory is the important thing is it expands at the same rate as the regular linear horn. I'm also trying to avoid 180 degree corners in the one I'm making, but I've seen many designs with 180 degree corners. Guess I'll have to wait for the results.

net, the port and sub would need to be accounted for, so a 1 cu ft box might end up being something like 1.2 cu ft gross

Best advice you could give the people

32"sq, I'm guessing the 13w7 works well in a ~60L/2 cu ft box. Could be 14x2.5" slot, or a single 6" round pvc pipe.

yes, 16 square inches, which is around 100 square centimetres, 11.25 is 70 square centimetres

square inch

It do be like that, just use 2 ports and give em a good flaring if thats an issue, if you've already got the 4 ports, could make them 1.2m and plug 2 of them

 @Dakoustics  I think my chosen driver just isn’t meant to play ported. Best way to figure the port out is using a box software. Box volume is Independent from Port diameter In most cases. Port size depends more on driver size, linear excursion and power. <30m/s Port velocity is a good value.

2 medium ports, since its a 12" it'll probably want a ~2cu ft/60L box, so 2 4"/10cm round ports with a bit of a roundover should do well

 @Dakoustics  sir what is the length measurements of that 2 ports? You mean the diameter radius of port is more than 2 inches?

Small, short port and large, long port should tune the same. If the lengths are equal, small port tunes lower than large port. A smaller box will tune to a higher frequency though.

I'd say 4th orders and 6th orders, high tuned port can be wider/longer, 20sq" per cu ft, and rear chamber in 6ths depending on how low they're tuned, down to 8"sq per cu ft, mainly to keep port length down, or else half the enclosure will be port volume. Also, I checked DDs sight, but at first glance I couldn't find it, or they removed it, not sure.

 @Dakoustics  Thanks for the answer;)

Yeah, some companies use two-way Xmax, I suppose its the new "max power" value. Ground Zero though have a subwoofer with linear Xmax 40mm one way, which is pretty ridiculous, though it wouldn't surprise me if some other companies just go all out and have 60kg magnets and 5" long voice coils etc.

Dakoustics 40mm is down right crazy impressive, problem is it would be quite difficult to control that kind of excursion and still stop on a dime I’d imagine. I prefer a sub around to be around the 15mm-20mm mark at least though. 40mm would be cool to watch!

my guess is ~150L/5 cu ft, maybe even bigger, but i can't say much more without knowing the specs, most likely 32Hz tuning would do well, purely going off a typical 18" 600w sub

 @Dakoustics  thanks, many

 @Dakoustics  the speaker is the TR 18B-1200, SPL 99 , the speaker is from Canada.

My opinion is i'm sick up and fed with calculating ports.
So i doubled my speakers & amps and blocked off the ports.
End of discussion!

Doesn't total surface area of the diaphragm combined with x max have anything to do with port area? One website I went to said I should go with a short two and a half inch port, well another website suggests that I use a very long 6-in port. But both suggest that these ports will result in 34 Hertz tuning. How can that be? Doesn't Port area also affect tuning along with diameter and length? I have everything I need to put this sub together. But I am absolutely befuzzled by Port area. Trying to do a 1.25 Cube box tuned at 34 HZ for a single low budget 10-in sub, to be installed in a single cab pickup truck. Port area dramatically affects the external dimensions of the box. And my space is tight.

Sorry ..am very poor in English.
Which is better small or big .?

B

I understand what your trying to explain here but I think your terminology could be confusing to novice builders.
What is the best port size? The answer is the correct size. The port being big or small is subjective. On the other hand a (too big) or (too small) port is not subjective. What you described was correct in the port being (too big) or (too small) and not just a big port versus a small port. So, their is no best in small versus big. There is only the correct size for the application.

1200w 80hz sub

Heya. Valuable info. The technology came forward a lot, and nowadays if you know what you´re doing, and use high end drivers, you can use the port very differently. No need to optimize the port itself for best accoustical performance anymore. Golden ages. Now I can afford to optimize the port for impedance shape, for cooling, Group Delay and transient response (boomyness) and such. It is great helper to make efficient compact system now, instead of desperate need for speaker to produce any SPL at the bas region. That way I can afford to put a 21" speaker into compact 230l box, measuring 58x58x76cm including feet, handle and 100mm casters, load two into european sized car, and make quite loud gig for 150-200 people. Hope IPAL and M-force technology comes forward some more, so we increase the power density even more.

Love your vids but it way too technical for me. 😅 Can you recommend a box size and type for my Audiobahn Alum12Q. I have a 30L sealed box. Wonder if I can do better.

This isn't quite right. A ported speaker is minimum phase. That means frequency response and time-response are linked. So when you design a speaker with a larger port that has the same response as the same speaker with a smaller port, with or without EQ, then it will have the same impulse response. So a larger port does not have inherently worse damping. The difference in impulse response stems from the difference in frequency response compared to a smaller port with the same tuning.

Hi, can i get 20htz with a small compact box with an 18" speaker ?

Not really....if u have strong subs

Xmax 60mm is ridiculous. You told the software that the driver moves 120mm total. No driver moves that much.

Port = boomy bass...!

Great video! I have a doubt, the length of the port also affects the tunning? And how?

Ports are used to tune a subwoffer to the enclosure it is in! So the size of the port all depends on the sub?

60 mills or mm Xmax?

A médium port is better

Ight big port it is

60mm is not a reasonable xmax, thats way too big.

Ofc small "port" is better...

Rules of thumb:
Start with port area equal to Sd and work backwards until it fits in the box.
Port length should not exceed twice its diameter.
Port should be circular with appropriate flares at both ends.
Port termination should be similar at both ends to reduce port rectification.
Enclosure and port size are closely interrelated and change dramatically with desired F3 and the driver TS parameters.
Don't expect high efficiency at low frequencies from a small enclosure.

Smaal

Yeah, M-Force looks really cool, though from what I've found its quite expensive. Would be cool to see more companies adopt a moving magnet/stationary coil system.

Around 60L tuned to about 30Hz should do well.

 @Dakoustics  My amp is a Pioneer 9701D mono. It does not have a subsonic filter. I found the specs of my sub and to tune it to 37 hz requires a 2.5 cubic ft box. If I build this does that mean the sub wont drop below that 37 hz? Im trying to learn but there's a lot, lol.

Check out the OBCON hidden chamber or labrynth single sub dual ported i believe its tuned to 35hz about $120 Should get you one...iv seem this box with a 12" generic sub beat dual orion 15's

quick tip for db gain... line the whole inside of the box in foil tape for realy smooth and fast airflow.

Trash that audiobahn

If you have alot of power, yes.  Read about Hoffman's Iron Laws. 1) Bass Extension 2) Efficiency 3) Small Enclosure

The law is that you can only have two of these three attributes in speaker building.  Ideally we would want all three, we want speakers with good bass, can play really loud, and are small.  Unfortunately we cannot have all these. You are going to lose efficiency by using a undersized box.

18s need minimum 5 cu ft I would do about 6 cu ft with a 6 in aero

Just as it was said before, deep bass and small enclosure = lot of power. So you can take something like Dayton Ultimax or Peerless STW, put it into a relatively small sealed box (vented is not really the greatest for compact size and low tuning) and give it a lot of EQ. You can hit 20Hz flat. You actually don't even need a big woofer, I'm doing this with a 10" Ultimax.

 @tomkocur  but i thought that if the enclosure is smaller it will lose the low ends. Example a seaper that reaches 20hz in a big enclosure will just reach 30hz in a smaller enclusure.

 @tomkocur  sorry again, what did you mean by vented not greatest ? It still should be vented. You mean air flow will be bad. What if i put hole vents in each corner ?

Isobaric , doubtful if an 18 is going to sound as good as say an 8 in a proper sized box

wider ports tune higher, longer ports tune lower, if the 16 square inches per cubic foot is kept the same, the length of the port is used to change the tuning.

 @Dakoustics  oh I understand now, thanks a lot, this is very helpful! and thanks for the answer!!! Consider me a new subscriber

What do you mean by tuning or you tuned

 @fiesta4429  perhaps I'm wrong, sorry about that, the english is not my principal lenguage. I referred to the frequency which the enclosure is tuned to resonate naturally

Well, the overall box size and tuning frequency does depend on the subwoofer driver itself. But the port itself can be different lengths and thicknesses while keeping the same tuning. This video is more about how thick the port should be, and to adjust tuning you'd increase or shorten its length. It should work fine with all subwoofers,  It'd be rare this 16:1 ratio does not work with a driver at all.

mm, as in milimetre, but referenced peak to peak in this video

 @Dakoustics  I thought I heard mills in the video, also stating the number of 60 being  common - which I believe is true, but saw mm in the software used - which usually stands for millimeters - well, I've never seen a loudspeaker with Xmax as large as 60 millimeters. I nust didn't add up to me.
That's why I ask the question.

yeah yeah i know mistakes one way not peak to peak lmao

60mm xmax? What driver has a 6cm xmax? Never heard of a speaker with such ridiculous xmax. Can't sound very good with that much flex.

The correct answer is, there is no correct answer, only compromises. 

You left out power compression and loss of output form it with heat soak build up in coil, by going too small.  If you go with a ported enclosure, you must have selected the correct  loudspeaker driver for it. Too many times, people blame it on the box, when it is the choice of driver causing the "boom" sound. 

Go with the largest port, that keeps air velocity low enough to avoid cuffing, limit power compression, manage group delay and not increase the size of your enclosure to unnecessary sizes. See, with bass reflex designs, you have to make compromises on each detail involved and accept what you are comfortable with sacrificing.

IF box size is a factor in your design and you need the smallest enclosure with a low tuning, passive radiator is the way to go.

I've heard this rule of thumb several times. It's simply not true. It depends on the sub. Some subs play best at 14. Some play at 16. Some will play well over 16. Infact if my memory serves me. Dd recommends 18 square inches per cube for a few of their drivers.

Medium is the best

ID of port has nothing to do with damping.

Neither. You want a port TUNED to the AREA of the cone. Which can be figured using pi 3.14159265, or just 3.14. Convert the speaker cone circumference area to square inches. And you've more or less got it. Remember, you're moving an amount of air. This math also works for liquids when calculating flow amounts through pipe. And air is simply a different medium using the same hardware.

वीडियो हिंदी में बनाओ

60mm Xmax how much you pay 5k?

What would be the most space efficient enclosure type?

It's better to do demo live.... 😒😒😒😒

Size: 0 port

60 mm excursion ?! Maybe you want to say 16 mm !

The best Port is NO PORT

.

I think a smaller port sound more deep because it is closer to sealed, and a big port is just boosted

I have a 4 inch subwoofer of home theatre. I want to design a enclosure for it. (0.35 ft3 is the enclosure volume) . Can I use a 1 inch diameter pipe with it?

Sealed for audiophiles , ported for bass heads.

WHAT THE F***!?!?!?!?   You're giving a 2-DIMENSIONAL EXPLANATION of how to calculate a 3-DIMENSIONAL OBJECT!!!  On multiple occasions you reference "port surface area". That's 2-dimensional.  Height x width of the port, or pi r squared if it's round.  And then...???????  What about length????  16 sq/in (2-dimensional) per 1.0 cubic foot (3-dimensional).  THAT'S NOT EVEN A LEGITIMATE EQUATION!!!


An example you gave was for a 10 cubic foot box.   You said 160sq inches (expecting that everyone knew you multiplied 16 x 10).  
*STOP RIGHT THERE*  
160 sq/inches??  Height x width??  pi/r/sq?  "Square inches" don't represent volume, "cubic inches" do.  Are you suggesting that we never use a port more than 1 inch in length??  Of course you're not...
*continue*
And then it get's better when you give the "answer", which was to use a port 16 inches by 10 inches.  Umm...  A rectangle hole in the side of the box????  No, of course not.  It's clear that you're implying 10inches of length.  So you mean 16" in diameter???  That's a big freaking port!! (aka "freeair".)  Or 32 x 5?!?!


I'm sure I've made my point, so I'll stop now.  You had good intentions when making this video, but you're only giving part of the explanation needed for a novice to  complete their project.  And only getting part of the answer is really no answer at all.

Long time since I built speakers, trying  to catch up. Nobody I watched even mentions filling the encloser with lightly packed fiber class insulation, sealed or ported. It cures allot of problems. Mark Richardson

Found this video while trying to tune the port on my 2x10 Ampeg (copy) bass cabinet, 50L. Did the math, it sounds spot on. Thanks!

It is linear Xmax, so as long as materials don't "clack" it still has potential to sound good. There is a driver also with 10cm Xmax. Also the 6cm and 10cm are two-way, so all the way in to all the way out.

 @Dakoustics  I find it hard to believe that such design can sound anything but floppy and boomy. One of the best high power professional woofers, the Beyma 18"PW1400FE has an xmax of 10mm

This video is more or less for people who have decided to port their enclosure. This is focused at a more generallised port spec. Also, the drivers and examples listed, such as sundown and DD, are high power drivers, so if power compression was an issue, I'm sure DD and sundown would promote a larger port area. 
Heat soak seems a tad insignificant, most coils, copper or aluminium, rarely get above 200C, and from room/cabin temperature to 200C the resistance increase is relatively small.

 @Dakoustics  all drivers suffer from power compression and voice coil heat build up when pushed to their limit. Especially, those with very long coils, it's just the nature of the design and those manufactures understand this.

It very much does, unless you're thinking of a different type of damping

Consider a 4" driver, its port area would be the same as the drivers surface area, and to tune it to 50Hz it'd have to be 2 metres long, and would be more of a transmission line enclosure. 
Going off the volume of the enclosure results in an ideal damping for the port, as in efficiency without being too resonant, boomy, or sustaining an overhung note for too long. The port and enclosure act together as a resonator.

Absolute most space efficient means a trade-off for efficiency, so basically the highest power and excursion sub possible in a sealed enclosure.

Nope, 30mm each way

Sea ports and airports are rather useful, though.

That's a good way of using thought experiments to predict outcomes

1" is a bit small, but often with such a small enclosure compromises must be made in order for the enclosure not to be enormous, which would defeat the purpose of a small driver. Give it a shot, if it doesn't sound great, could try running 2  1" ports, or a single 2" diameter port.

 @Dakoustics  Thank you, sir.

This video was mainly aimed at people using WinISD or a similar program to design their boxes. The surface area of 16"sq per cu ft remains constant, the length of the port is your own variable. You decide the length depending on what tuning frequency you want. I can't tell you what length to make the port or else it'd be for one tuning only. 
As for the shape of the port, it doesn't matter too much. Air at the sides move slower, so the port with the least surface area (circular) would have the least amount of drag, though I have noticed a skin effect occur where air near the edge moved faster than the centre, quite odd. In a 10cu ft box a 16x10" port wouldn't equate to free-air either. It would still resonate. Ever noticed the back of some old boxes, i.e. 70s? The entire back acted like a port, in fact some acted more like dipoles than enclosures. 
TL;DR port length changes with tuning, so I cant tell you how long it should be.

It all depends on the woofer you are using! They are going to have a spec sheet letting you know the proper airspace that individual sub requires. It also depends on what frequency you are tuning the box  to.  You design them according to what you were looking to get from a subwoofer.  If you're tuning it for SPL, you're going to have a completely different box than if you're going to tune it for everyday grounded pound. Box design is everything. You can tune the box to a certain frequency say 32 Herts.... When they subwoofer plays that frequency... You can get a three to six DB gain in SPL depending on box design.  The best performance out of your subwoofer, you build and tune the port to the spec sheet as well as airspace requirement. This is why companies like jl audio  have a department you can call telling them what kind of vehicle, what driver and how much power you're going to be giving it. Then they will help you design a specific box with airspace and port dimensions for the sweet spot of the driver you're using and what exactly you're looking to get out of your build. SPL? Everyday ground and pound ect. This is the reason why box design is so important, because as I stated earlier being able to get a 3 to 6db gain at a certain frequency  JUST out of a proper enclosure design, something that would normally take adding another wooferr and doubling your power

Future vids:?
Where to plase the port in a sub box.?
Where is the best placing ? Why

Why dods some subs have huge magnets and som dont. What is the benifit of a big magnent. ?

What is "best". 
A: One sub (dual voice coil 2x2 ohm) = 1 ohm amp load. 
or 
B: 2 subs at 4 ohm each. = 2 ohm amp load.
Lets say that the amp can handle 1 ohm. ? 
In theory A or B would play just as loud. Or?

Small port- more Bass

I'll take a ported box over a seal box any day. Ported baby.

What was your opinion never did here...

Just gave you a BIg Thumbs Down!  How is what your asking even a subject!?  You clearly don’t understand the parameters of speakers and why things are done the way they are done.  Let me guess!, you like to drop woofers in buckets and call them Subs, right!?  Lmao

Area of the port should close to 30% of the drivers area. Better stop spreading your dangerous "knowledge". Thumb down.

No port is best

I’m a professional DJ and I was told anything below a 12inch woofer is no good for DJ. I own a pair of JBL - JRX212 studio passive monitors. Height 23in(584mm) Width 15.7(399mm) Depth 12.8in(325mm) Weight 431lbs(19.5kg) is that good enough. They sound pretty good. The horn produces good highs and mids, and the low end is deep. I keep the volume between 3 - 4 on my UREI mixer which is loud enough for my apt.

Best studio monitors I own are sealed. Kef Reference 101 and Visonik David. 

Actually, that's a lie, I have Tannoy monitor golds in a bass reflex.

But still, the tiny sealed boxes are really good.

I personally like a 6"/150mm round pvc port flared at either end in a ~2.5cuft/70L. The box I made sounds quite smooth.

I think this comment just gave me a brain aneurism, congratulations

First time I've heard this, I've seen many examples of 16"sq per cu ft. I did ask for differing opinions, not attitude.

 @Dakoustics  English is not my mothers language. So it's hard for me to explain. Do you know what is group delay, "Thiele-Small" parameters? Do you know, that every cabinet has it's own resonance frequencies because of the length of the of the frequency waves? (I can't explain better, vocabulary and knowledge is to small) That's why every spot inside to cabinet has a different level of pressure. That means, position of the port is also important. By the way: In my former post was no attitude.

