Interested in learning about wireless power? Subscribers can get up to 80% off Wireless Power to the People - Wireless Charging 101 on udemy using the coupon code "YOUTUBE"
http://www.udemy.com/wireless-power-to-the-people-wireless-charging-101/?couponCode=YOUTUBE

I came for the electronics, stayed for the Pendulum.

*Sits here frustrated studying for exams.
*Hears Pendulum - Slam
*Instantly becomes focused

I don't know why I pay tuition fees when guys like you teach me more in ten minutes than I learn in a whole lecture.  Thank you!

It's 2024 and this video is still the best one explaining the topic ! PLEASE restart posting videos, community needs such high quality material.

1.Very good explanation. 2. We can apply the knowledge as we want to. 3. In-depth and very clear explanation. Excellent.

Ya know, I'm a college physics student and i swear (not downing my professors they are great and I probably wouldn't have been able to pick up this stuff so well if it wasn't for them) that I have learned more from you than in my now 4th year of physics classes. You've helped with numerous of my "just for fun" projects. Thanks! And keep up the epic work.

Just wanted to say that your electronics videos are the most helpful I've seen anywhere! Thanks a lot for them, and please keep them coming!

OMG WINAMP!  The memories...

I spent freaking two quarters to find out what the hell the different filters do and learned nothing form the class. but this video explained me what I need to know. Thank you so much Sir Afrotechmods. Keep up the good work!!!!

+1 for the Winamp

+1 For Pendulum

i learned more from this mans vids than i ever have in electronic classes.

On behalf of everyone who sees your videos, a big mega thanks to you, from all of us. 

You put it all together for us, and make the impossible to learn, possible to learn.

If you had to learn this from some tenured professor in the fake education system we call universities, it would be impossible to learn anywhere near as much.

Your videos all have great production values, and you have an excellent voice on top of that.

Your videos inspire all of us to keep learning, and you make it easy.


Wow, I just say wow when I've leanred something new even years are gradualting engineering.

The fact you played pendulum is an insta-thumbs up

You are such a good teacher. Thank you so much

Finally somebody tell me the benefits of the filter.

I love how the guy sounds pro as fuck but also have a badass playlist

Most practical & efficient presentation of the subject. Provides conceptual background to dive into more mathematical treatment.

i purchased that course by the way!! lol im going to go invest in a wireless that gets power from ambient noise!

Relatable

Because they are not really smart A low pass filter is an inductor and 1 or 2 capacitors NOT A RESITOR

afro tech mods sharing quality music, Im gonna add it to my playlist

BEST MOST SIMPLE "EXPLANATION" OF CROSSOVERS AND CROSSOVER "CAPACITORS" OUT THERE  !

It is amazing that no one else can just explain this so simply ???

Most every question answered !

GOOD JOB !

Rick - Southern California

What makes the music cooler is the fact that you understand and can see what's going on.

Study.. study.. study..

Insane explanation, best enough to clear out doubts

You got my thumbs up for putting Pendulum music!

That classic winamp ive been using for many many years and that put a smile on my face.

this video deserves double like

your doing god's work... now we can all pass our engineering degrees

Video: You can not make a perfect filter that works like this.
Arduino: Hold my beer.

You deserve  a medal

you helped me understand how to get a steeper cut off frequency

I'm doing these in Electronics at the moment. I already knew the basics, but thanks for the rest - keep the great videos up.

This is the explanation that I was looking for.. I wanted to filter out mobile incoming call frequency from my audio amplifier.. And this tutorial got me to it.

Best videos about on electronics on youtube

writing my dissertation at the minute thank you! great help and great channel

wasn't expecting pendulum when doing my circuits hw! haha thanks brother

Best example song for sure i love Pendulum

Afro, you gotta be my teacher, man. Awesome video as usual.

I really appreciate your effort for making such useful videos.

BANGING explanation of RC low pass filters .......!!! Love it !!!

Wow... another awesome tutorial... I've learned so much from watching these vids... It makes it so easy to understand the concept.  

Thumbs up because of 6:19 and because this is actually a good explaination

Thanks

simple and straight to the point. thanks

Thank you verymuch for this video! Explains everything in a clear, easy to understand way. THANK YOU!

I need to leave two likes... One for you, one for the song, great!

Man, your videos are QUALITY!  Honestly, from all my experience from universities, books and other tutorials, your videos make the BEST intuitive sense. Excellent content, you can communicate the content in an EXCELLENT manner and very funny too! And most importantly, the mix of theory and practical stuff. Amazing channel, will await for more!!!

Excellent as always, and always so practical!

Very informative! I study electronics and I am finally beginning to understand this subject. And this video and explaination makes it way more clear to me.

aaaahh, takes me back to highschool... Thanks for these vids man!!

Really helped me understand, I'm with seth, I've been at Access to Music college for 3 years and i've learned more in this video then i have in all 3 years at college :L Really good, thanks alot man :) 

Best. Anonymous. Video. Ever!  You guys really do help the world

Really useful and the practical demonstrations were helpful, thanks.

Great as always! I've been waiting for you to make a filter video. Thanks!

that was one of the most satisfying video tutorial ever....everything you said were on point and the use of practical approach instead of using equation stuffs just make this video so easy to understand. A big thanks and hug to you for creating such helpful video.

Brilliant tutorial.  Every other one I've seen or read just uses random resistor values.  Your's is the only one that states WHY you're using those values.  Sub'd

very nice example of low n high pass filter.. with a win amp :)

You had me at Slam!

Your videos are the best! Thank you

BEST TUTORIAL EVA!

thks man for this video..i found it in none of my books

Yes surely good...

keep up the great work

Brilliant vid. Cracked up at 6.23

This was great, thank you. I used a RC filter to reduce noise on the 3.3v rail of my raspberry pi. It dropped the ripple from 25mv to less than 1mv.

Great video, I was not able to understand this whole topic, but after watching your video. :D

Amazing video! you explain it so well and you even made this boring topic super interesting!
Thanks a million

Thanks for saving my life from high frequencies!!!!! Great vid

you are awsome , make things so clear  best Kurt


you're the best, sir :hand-orange-covering-eyes:

Thanks for your videos where people founds many useful informations :)

Helpful, instructive video, thanks for making!

Awesome Video!
I LOLed at the soft low pass and high pass xD

Super awesome video.. full of knowledge and way too different from bookish way of describing RC's. Thank you.

Very clear. Thank you. On to high pass and LC.

Thanks a lot a man for explaining this thing to me.

So far, the songs you used are the Duke Nukem theme and Pendulum Slam... WIN!

You are really great

Excellent tutorial, keep up the good work.

Are you well? I don't see any new videos from last 5 years. Your videos are really awesome.

Maximum points for using classic winamp. :D
Thanks for the videos Afro, you rock. 

Thumbed up after 7 years from the publishing of the video because of that message at 6:23

This was so helpful. Thank you

Good vids, keep it coming. I learn a lot from your vids.

sir yr video on RC LOW PASS FILTERS TUTORIAL
An excellent video of the BEST quality that i have come across in my life. I can never forget this video because of its outstanding features like CRT viewing,  hearing music variation at different frquencies, Practical demonstration of components and calculation,  ideal graphs and Practical one, such a clear explanation of theory, what to say and what not to say.  Very well made video.
thank u so MUCH
s.vatsa  India

good and simple explanation

So nostalgic.

Keep going your contest is really nice 🔛🔝

There is no reason for that audio clip to be diabolically delicious

Thank you so much!!! Explained beautifully

thumbs up for the shaking Volvo doors

Awesome video sir

W0000000000H000 thats what i was looking for (2 weeks) :D
Atleast, now i know how, love the videos, liked and subscribed .

great music choices

Thank you, your videos are very helpful.

I hope u were my circuit professor

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I was struggling with the damn thing for days! You've explained it so elegantly in such a short amount of time! Awesome!

BEST... TUTORIAL... EVER. And great song choice!

Nice,Pendulum.

You're the best! Thanks for sharing!!

I'm going to blast the audio to this video on my rusty 1987 Buick, after I get one.

Great tutorial 👌

Winamp and pendulum... love it lol

Can you help me please i am playing 8ohm su woofer 400watts rms i want it to play 40hz down?IM CONFUSED what capcitor to use.

Daniella Henry
 I'm not sure i understand what do you want to do, but i presume you want to filter out audio frequencies above 40Hz? I don't really work with audio but from what i understand you need to find out what the electrical parameters of the amplifier input are, as well as the signal source ones, and choose an appropriate resistor, so that your signal will transmit properly. When you know what resistor to put, choose a capacitor with c = 1 / (2*Pi*R*fc). My guess is that a 1k resistor might be enough. Then you'd need about a 4uF capacitor. Filtering is done on the pre-amp side i believe, not after. But like i've said...i'm no expert at this. For a professional solution you'd have to consult a professional.

I love pendulum!!!

Cool.  I do have to really think to get all this, but it’s cool

very nice.. very useful video

What I used for a treble roll off filter was a 0.01 mfd capacitor in series with a 500,000 ohm potentiometer across the transformer out of the headphone jack of my hp XP windows desk bound computer. I got the parts from an industrial electronics store bin.

I used that as an auxiliary control. That fed an amplifier, which fed a parametric equalizer. It was just a whole lot easier to take my hand and turn the highs up or down, rather than fiddle around and go into the computers dedicated audio equalizer, which was optimally set.

It works great. When the highs go down, the bass goes up a little. I'm mainly concerned about speech intelligibility in movies that I watch.

I mounted the little RC circuit in a small plastic box. I like it because IT'S HANDS ON! I don't have to go through the keyboard commands.

excellent video about filters... thanks dude

Really good explanation!

4:58
Literally exactly why I’m here.

Nice, very informative, love the comment about jackasses who turn up the car radio

thank you so much.. Deep down from my Heart... AWESOME

excellent tutorial.

Haha same here, this is way more informative than my electronics class! xD haha Thanks!

Awesome...nice and clear..

Thank you for your Video!

Your vids are awesome! 
Keep it up.

thanks for making this video!

the way he played tge sounds i laughed.

Great video!

thanks, your videos are really helpful.

You are amazing!!

AAAAHHHH PENDULUM!! rock it, afro

Simply amazing.

I cant believe this video uploaded 12 years ago o.0

Dude loves his DnB!


this is perfect video! awesome!

Very nice video

Another science guy who listens to Pendulum, cool =)

Nice. I had both an original and an unorignal power supply (9V output) for a guitar pedal (distortion pedal), but the unoriginal power supply made this guitar pedal generate a high pitch noise which wasn't there with the original power supply. For fun I used a 120 ohm resistor with a 10 uf capacitor and then connected the pedal to the filtered 9V - lo and behold - all the high frequency noise vanished.

I'm still sticking to the original power supply, but this sure was an interesting experiment 😃

great video

I used choker as resistor after bridge diode road to the cap...
and got nice smooth startup on my amp.

Good sir

Thanks again man

loved it.

good teaching

You got a thumbs up for 6:19,  great vid btw, simplified things

Wish he still posted videos

Nice haa! 👍

Amazing, great video! Thanks so much for that =)

Great video. Nicly explained...
Thank you.

Nice video man, really nice :)

Спасибо! :)) Блестящее эксплэнэйшн (объяснение) 😍

Excellent!

thank a lot sir!

very nice video, thanks

thanks for the great lesson

6:19
That cracked me up!

Thank you! Excellent!

Thanks for the hardware visualization with theory. :-)

“Winamp winamp winamppppp
It really whips the lamas ass”

The comment at 6:18 was spot on!

Very useful :)

Thanks Very helpful!

Dear sir ,
i am from india i found that your tutorial are very effective sir it's my kind request to you please make some more tutorials on electronic like designing part calculation  why to choose specific value of component what it 's role & all. i am a electronic students sir & i would be thankful to you if you do it for electronic students . love from india💓💓💓💓

Great vid!

yay i got it now lol been trying to find the fomular and how to aseble thanks 

0:25 damn that is some 2010 shit going on right there 😄 

These videos are perfect, btw. I took classes in electronics and have let the majority of it wither away in my brain. Thanks

I WAS SO CONFUSED WHEN YOU STARTED PLAYING SLAM I THOUGHT I SOMEHOW STARTED MY PLAYER GJDFKGJDKL

Thank you very much, your explanation is so Goooooood ^_^

Hi, I made a subwoofer and I turn it right up because I think people like it, but it rattles the rusty doors off my '87 Buick, any suggestions?

Subscribed!

extra like for Pendulum - Slam :D

Underrated comment!

Chuck Norris Dynamat that rust bucket

Is that anything like Dynamite?

Has onyone actually noticed it's basicaly a response to one older comment?

It depends on the metal used in the wire, length of wire, and how wide the wire is. If I remember correctly, the formula is R = pL/A, where R = resistance, p = resistivity, L = length, and A = area. You'll have to look up the resistivity value for the wire.

nice..thanks

Good...thank you.

6:23 Facts 💯

nice tutorial..
nice song..lol

Yes! I use Winamp and LTSpice Too!

great!!!

+1 for car audio thing ^^

thanks man!

Thanks.

thanks man!!!!

Thanks a lot sir <3

Many many thank yous. +1'd, and sub'd.

BRILLIANCE!

The old school winamp equalizer...👍

Turn on closed captions and select Transcribe Audio, sit back and enjoy the mistakes such as Hertz becoming hurts :D

Winamp examples are really low shelf / high shelf filters

Dude, beam me your knowledge telepathically. I need it. 

I'm trying to graduate with a degree in badass from afrotechmods university.

Thanks a lot... :)

Thanks!!

6:19, I wish I could thumbs up twice lol.

This is so in depth and easy to understand! Thank you so much for this knowledge!

6:20

instantly hits thumbsup

nice


The last comment about cascading filters, there's an important concept to understand.  A low pass filter's cut-off frequency is defined as the frequency at which the amplitudes is down by 3dB.  If you put two of the same frequency filters together, isolated by a buffer to prevent interactions, the output will be down by 6dB at the cut-off frequency.  Therefore,  if you need a sharper rolloff, but need the cut-off frequency to be the same, it's better to use an active filter.  Also, Spice is a good idea if you don't know exactly what you're doing, and even if you do, it's useful to check your work.

perfecto

Drum and Bass For the win!!! BOH

thanx

@MrLiquimatter 

So do I. He is the men dude.


think you!


Now i can use this in lm386 audio amplifier

If I'm telling the truth, I wish I didn't fall asleep during this lecture. If I'm telling more of the truth, I wish I fell asleep more often. I get these. I think my professor's draining me of my life essence.

Это было интересно и познавательно 👍

where was this video when I was studying for my exam?????

someone get the broom my mind just got blown!!!

Thumbs up for the comment hahaha 

tq

wow this is an excellent primer on filters

it would be awesome if you had a follow up video on 
how to make sharper filters
what is the importance of the phase shifting/frequency in a filter
and maybe the filtering effects of parasitic capacitance/inductance in a circuit ?
oh and maybe something about resonant and active filters ?
btw all that material is already explained in the open source ebook called

"Lesson in electric circuits" at ibiblio

it's a great source for producing these vids




Thanks for this grade tutorial!

Excellent!

great videos

Howdy.
One may cascade RC filters to get steeper attenuation. The trick is simply that each next branch should have an impedance of 10 times the previous. For most practical uses each branch may be calculated using the basic formula. The inter-loading will be small.
So if we want a 40 dB attenuation per decade we use a 1 k resistor in the first branch and calculate the corresponding capacitor. In the next branch we use 10 k and a capacitor of 1/10 of the previous.
However. The following amplfier input impedance needs to be 100 k or higher.
If some inter-loading can be accepted a smaller factor may be used, say 5 times.

What if I wanted to put a potentiometer to control the cutoff frequency? The highest setting of the potentiometer being at an inaudible frequency, and the lowest being around 50Hz?

gotta love that roll off, if your subs and or other speakers cut off completely at a certain frequency your music would choppy as fuck probably over powering you amp aswell

Someone likes motor storm haha

Winamp <3

I was unaware there were any 1987 Buicks still on the road.

This is amazingly explained! I have to write a paper about an experiment about high pass and low pass filters that I was supposed to do at university but this whole situation has put that on the hold but not the paper I have to write ahaha thankfully there's resources such as this where I can actually see what I would be doing! Thanks!!

pendulum slam!!!

Pendulummmm \o/

Hey if I don't view this video at full screen, the capacitors in your diagrams are really hard to see. You should put a notice so people turn up the quality and size.

Great videos

@thewii552 thanks!!,haha stupid me, is in the winamp main window display XD

yeahhh

Great clip, thanks.
one question , according to your experience, how do you usually decide the cut off frequency to a equipment ?
I am using PLC at the moment, I am recommended to use RC filter to deal with noise problems to the input of the PLC,but I have no clue how to decide cut off frequency

Where’s my low pass filter gang at?

Still whippin dat llama's ass ...

@judgenap It's a cheap and easy way to get DAC functionality from a microcontroller

Fucking using pendulum 10/10

I was all like OMG winamp!?!?. Then I saw the date of the video.

@frank26080115 You're right. The youtube compression has made them look all weird. In the original render the lines are much more clear. Oh well something for next time.

Hi, thank you and this is what I am looking for. Please help me, what capacitor should I use to have 5Khz low filter cut off ? I did the count but I do not know how to convert it to Farad or something. Thanks in advance.

Hey buddy...do you maybe have that paper written and would you be willing to share it, as i have to do the same thing too hahaha

 @aljazmarolt  This was a long time ago but I'll look over my stuff and see if I find something ;)

 @aljazmarolt  I can't seem to find anything :/ And if I did it would probably be written in portuguese (my mother language). I do have some python code using high and low pass filters for optics applications though

The professor used to say loads of bullshit assuming we are professors like him I never understood the deep concept of this video but I understood it from you very easily

LOL comment @ 6:20 wins it! There's no end to the amount of times i hear that crap a day out here. 

❤❤❤❤❤

👍👍👍👍👍👍

@pavelsj Slam by Pendulum

Hi; like and watch your vids.  Thank You.


Q: why don't you use an inductor and a capacitor for another viddy, so that you can explain how a speaker system x-over works?  Play with the values and the speakers used to show how they are formulated?

winamp!

Don't forget filters' use in subtractive audio synthesizers, i.e. the minimoog. Speaking of which, what're the equations for diode and transistor based filters?

sir are the cut off frequencies of 1)Tweeter 2)Midrange and 3)Woofer the same or different from each other. if so can you plaes give the formula for each tia! love your videos! :)

Thanks. I was trying to filter the output of my amp and kept burning up the resistor.

Winamp!!!

Thanks 1:41

Hi, thank you for this very usefull video! My question is, lets say I have a mini HiFi stereo with 90W per channel with a 3 ohm woofers. Those woofers play medium frequencies that I wanted to cut off and keep just the low frequencies. Can I do that with that passive RC low pass filter on each woofer? Is it possible? Thank you in advance! Ow and the stereo as a built-in bi-amplifier separating the woofers from the tweeters.

Hey dude,
Great job in doing that video... Ive got one question:
I wanna filter out the bass frequency of a audio signal and then higher its min. Voltage with a dc offset, to make its voltage completely positive to read it out with a arduino...
But the problem is:
How to do that? As soon as i connect the dc offset voltage source in series, it makes the low pass filter not work anymore....

hey dude, how making a video tutorial about DIY inductors,, it could be a great help, and also add something about LC hi pass and low pass filters,, thanks,,,

What if I use 100-ohm resistor with 10micro farad capacitor instead of 1K resistor and 1 micro Farad capacitor
both give 150Hz frequency in low pass filter.
which one to choose ?

can you please do one for a high pass filter? specifically for audio frequencies like this one? need to make a dc blocking filter and Im having trouble on my choice of caps as the design of caps in the AF range has a big effect on the sound

I forgot you mentioned LTSpice. I'll try it. The circuit I'm working on is for a universal AM transceiver for 1 hz to 22 khz here: internetexpress.ipower.com/images/bidirectionalschematic.png

Low pass subwoofer filtering is done with inductors not resistors, a typical speaker low pass filter to limit the cone to 120hz uses around a 5.00mH coil

can you please explain why you should chose a resistance value at first and let the equation determine the capacitance ?

+Mohammed Fawaz 
I think there are two types of professors - those who talk to the students, and those who talk to the air.
The ones who talk to the air are those stiff guys who stand around and mumble stuff that they have prepared for the lecture while looking bored, whereas those who talk to the students are those who actually connect with the students and interact with them on a deep level, and seem enthusiastic and willing to teach stuff.

+Laurelindo Well said my friend :) I am on my graduation project and I'm benefiting from Youtube courses more than the whole 5 years I spent in college although I pay thousands of dollars

But why to use a coil instead of a resistor?

Paulo Ponce De León because coils are reactive loads, so there is no power loss in the coil

i have made a basic tone generator could i put an extra pot on with your method  shown to apply a filter ie placing the resistor and cap before the speaker at the end of the existing circuit I have

@frank26080115
and use thicker lines in your diagrams

I just did some math and I would need a 3.3 ohm resistor which I don't think would be very good for my amp as thats 11.3 ohms.  I found a higher uf capitor though and only need a resistance of .5ohms!  NOICE!

How do I find out how much juice this thing will handle?

This helped a lot in choosing resistors and capacitors, BUT...
I just don't get it - Incoming + firstly goes through Resistor and than splits - to speakers + and to capacitor. Than it goes throug capacitor where it is connected to Incoming - and goes stright to speakers - ?
*So resistor is in line and capacitor is switched parallel with speaker?

4:45 isen't this also an idealized view of an rc cut off since capactitors have an L value for their inductance aswell so the ramp will reverse at some point?

Sir, can i add one for my 5v mini speaker? what values of capacitor and resistor needed?

So using this method, could you convert 24v AC power from an HVAC thermostat into logic level DC for an Arduino? How would you determine the resistor value in this scenario?

hey.how can i connect the jack to the breadboard?? can u please explain or tell me how can i get that adapter?

I was just about to ask about how to cutoff the signal at an exact frequency range when you showed it wouldn't be possible, so the best method would be just to reduce the range, make it more precise?

Hi Afrotechmods, Thanks for  the great videos.  Q .   you  changed the PWM to a  DC Voltage .  what  examples  would you need this for?

can I do it without serial resistor? I need to stablize an 5amp 12v swithing psu as it makes inyerference in the lcd driver

is there a way to calculate the output signal shift?

what the triangle symbol (with a square on it) is used for?

what about bass boost at certain frequencys?    to use with this circuit?

HelloThere!!
I have an 80 w subwoofer. What do you suggest I set cutoff frequency to? And probably could you tell what R- value to use for that particuler cutoff frequency. Help very much appreciated.

what resistor and capacitor I should use to get 100hz without voltage loss?

hi! how can I clean up the DC source to reduce noise in car audio? capacitors? toroids? please help me!
thanks!

hi im not completečy sure how to use the formula cud you tell me what values i wud need to make a filter that will cut of at 60hz ? or at least close to that FYI: i want to make a subwoofer and need the filter for my subwoofer

I pretty much got everything you said but still not sure on how to choose the resistor value.
I want to drive a 20w subwoofer with a 15w amplifier.. what R value would you suggest?

2:07 Ahh... the famous 2pi...

Is there any impedance differences that I should be worried about for this?

I see you are useing electrolit condensator, and i was wondering, couldn't it be a problem because of the changeing direction of current? I would guess that the amount of charge leaving the capacitor during the backward curent is the same as the amount of charge getting in during the forward, but i'm not sure about it.

Helow!
How do you calculate  this capacitor,I do not understand the numbers?
I mean we have 1k transformed in 1000 ohmi and the f is in Hz but the result is in uF.Why not mF or pF or Nf or anything else?
Please answer to my question.
A tutorial about working and calculating and transforming this values will be very welcomed.
Thank you very much
I'l wait for your answer

How would I build a low pass filter to filter all above 100hz for my subwoofer?  I have a rather large 470uf capacitor and a bunch of crappy speaker cable that I think I could make the coil out of (right??).  thanks

do you have a video about overload?

PWM to filtered DC-- why the output voltage is close to the input mean?

Hi, when can we expect low and high pass filters of LC please?

I need to filter for 50hz can u tell me the values required for caps and resistors?

where is the donate button? awesome, all i just wanted to know in my class and i didn't

so if wanted to make a circuit to output the bass of 31hz i would need to do the calculation.... for resistor and capacitor any help?

what happens if the components in the circuit are flipped and made lpf instead of hpf ?

if my sub ends up rattling my door off the car i'm going to consider that  a win. realistically though personally my goal is to get the loudest cleanest bass with little to no rattling.

how does half power (-3db) equate to 30%?

There are more jackasses playing around in my area,... I definitely need to sale them cheap low pass filter so they can die while installing.. 😂

heeey great video!! just a question, what´s the name of the first song?? XD sounds cool

Can I put a bunch of these high and low pass filters in paralel, connect them on a single audio source, and with linear pot's have a equalizer? Thanks!

Wow! I ain't seen winamp since the 2000s and I ain't heard Pendulum in almost that long too. Kudos bro, kudos!

Hi, i just get confused with the duty cycle and frequency. We have a 1Hz cut off frequency, so why we still have a good voltage when the square wave are at 50Hz shouldn't be attenuated? Please explain to me am quite confused

I wired it exactly as in the video, but the potentiometer only acts as kind of a volume knob - it does NOT control the cutoff frequency... If I use a 10k pot and a 100nf ceramic capacitor, the capacitor also does absolutely nothing. When using a 100uf electrolytic capacitor, the high frequencies are cut but the knob just controls the volume and not the cutoff freq?!
Can anybody help me, I do not find the problem...

That will happen if you choose too large resistance for low pass filter in that music example? Will it distort audio in some way and why?

Why did you make the cutoff frequency 1Hz on the PWM example?

+Afrotechmods What’s the calculation at 80hz for low pass who puts a subwoofer on 150hz ??

i'm a little confused because right now im working on building a small toy synth keyboard based on 555 chip... and to determine the notes each note has its own frequency that i calculate its resistor value. (the resistor value to use in the circuit to produce that note) does that mean that if i use this design, all notes above the cutoff freq. wont play and all notes below cutoff freq will play?

How did you hook-up the lowpass filter to the mp3/gadget?? I kinda want to try that.

Again a resistor. I can't understand why there should be a resistor. Is it to tune the output voltage peak or ampere peak or both?

Hi, what does it mean to not overload the audio source? How does having a 1k resistor achieve that?

Can we use as in subwoofer

What 1uf cap did you use for subwoofer filter?? Looks like it is polarized one.

Guys, do I have to put my RC low pass filter exactly next to the output of my preamplifier? According to my experience, it doesn't work if it's put after the DC decoupling capacitor, is this true?

What if you connect an elctrolytic capacitor (egg 220μf) in parallel with the speaker. Is this not a low pass filter?

Make a video on active filterz plz????

OH, and do you have a link for the video using LTspice by chance?

Sir how did u get that 1600hertz

Rip to ear 0.25

Looks like 1 person owns a 1987 buick with bitchin' bass...

Is this what they used in equalizers?

What resistor should I put to power a transistor from my pc's soundcard (I measured 2 volts)?

8.14

Could I pay you to make a custom low pass filter for me? I was wanting to control the cutoff with a 100 Kohm logarithmic slide potentiometer to allow frequencies 0 hz to 22050 hz to go through but I can't get the math to work out with a single capacitor value. It going into the megahertz. Would you happen to have an idea on how to do this? Thanks

what do you mean when you choose the 1k resister and said...."didnt want to overload audio source"?

Hoa Pham the MP3 player  .7v (or whatever it is) output is already borderline too low for adequate amplification so putting any more resistance than needed inline may render the amplification insufficient for desired results.

Sir I have a question, can you apply the same principle for a pre-eq'd microphone, the objective is to pass only low frequency say 100hz below, given a microphone of 600 ohms. Thank you.

How to passively reduce Peak to 50hz before a passive crossover for a Subwoofer with a crossover frequency of 100hz/18db oct? Is there any passive circuit that would reduce the frequency of 50hz by 6db and still work up to 100hz?

Well, at least this professor does not have the Indian accent lol

Is there any way i could build a simple LC oscillator in LTSpice?

He just randomly picked resistor to not overload hes source, as he told, mp3 player.
Also, the reistor doesnt let the cap charge as fast as it would without the resistor.
So the cutout of lower.

wait howcome you chose 1k ? or can you just pick a random resistor value and use the calculations to give you the cap value?

@Afrotechmods when working out the cut off, why is it 10x 10 to the power of 3 for resistance and 10 x 10 to the power of minus 9 for C?

Hi falks. I am wandering samething about the C. So, which type of capacitor does have to be? Electrolytic cor film polyester? Thanks for answers.

It kinda messed up thee address but its putting a ~ in the word "images" in the web address. Feel free to let me know what you think. :)

At 5:55, how did you plug your phone to the low pass filter?

Does the values of the RC filter change when load is increased or descreased at the output ?

Can i use those to demodulate RF signals? I hope my question is understandable.

I think pendulum slam is the shit lol.

can you tell me what kind of app do you use?

how long of a spool of wire do I need to make it .5ohm resistance?

How do I choose the resistor value?

I like cats and resistors *g*

What project can i make out of filters? can you give me some ideas?

So it's basically an eq

Dang - looks like the video is restricted because of the Pendulum song played in it. Can't watch it from Germany :(

Why this dosent work for me

Hello! Interesting tutorial!
What if I want to remove a narrow "notch" in my triangle wave output from VCO? I fear that if I'll just insert 1-pole filter for ~15-17kHz then it will not be enough or will be reducing the sound of the wave on high octaves. Can this thing be done with a single trimmer... so one resistor will be choosing a "starting point" and other RC filters will be a kind of "an offset" to make an efficient (let's say) 12-pole filter...
I can't remove that notch... it's a simple saw -> waveshaper with a pull-down 1N4148 diode on the positive side of an op.amp that makes the waveshaping. I've tried small caps in the negative feedback (on the same op.amp) but it doesn't helps...
http://img.picshare.at/1521937883_JP8_SawCore_3-wave.jpg

I can't get it to work at 100 hz with 10 milli farad capacitor either did the math wrong (because I am in grade 7 I know nothing about math) or it doesnt work with that high farad capacitor

no coil needed?

6:20 I had always thought guys like that (and it's always guys, isn't it?) were jackasses too, but now I wonder if they're scientists who take their lab everywhere.

I thought capacitors acted like shorts for very high frequencies??

Afrotechmods, you're an angel.

Reminds me watching csgo

Can the resistor be replaced with a pot or is there more to it than that?

which program are you using to draw your circuits?

Flash ADC... LEDS....

do you happen to have a PWM video? 

Is that a polarized capacitor?

"rusty 1987 Buick"

Few hours ago i made speaker crossover using RC Filter since inductor is hard to find here,.. And the result is the speaker impedance  spikes to 18.5ohm in multimeter reading (8ohm speaker).. Why is that happened? And how to fix it thank you sir... And thank you for making videos on electronic.. I just getting into electronic very late,.. I'm 40 yo.

i shit u not a guy rolled up to me at the gas station the other day and he was rattling the whole fucking store with his subs

Why do people say "2000 micro farads" instead of "2 mili farads"?

I'm offended by that! My 1987 Buick LeSabre T-Type *begs* to have its Alpine sub turned up loud! ... ;-)

Bookmark 6:23

oohh so all the bass was thanks to low pass filter xD

Yeah but we're still assholes lol

Meow

I would assume thats how you modulate cutoff or some other such parameter. so, yes.

+Rudi Yang Because you added DC resistance! RC filters for speaker crossovers are not a good idea in general. You could try hand winding your own inductors based on equations and tutorials you find on the internet?

+Afrotechmods hmm ok,. Still don't fully connect the logic,.slowly will, thx for replied,.. I ordered LC meter last week, already into it ha ha,.. Also plan to salvage inductors from old pc motherboard when my device arrived,. Thanks again...

Is it okay to say....due to lower impedance of the capacitor, higher freq passed away to the GND?

Im a beginner: Why is the Subwoofer connected directly after the resistor? I thougt the filtering occurs due to the capacitor hence behind the capacitor is the filtered signal or am i missing something?

What does it mean to not overload the audio source by choosing a 1k resistor?

Don't you think when we put this filter for making smooth DC power, we get almost 90% of the power. But if the resistance is in high power, a Full-bridge rectifier or three phase full bridge rectifier will have to deliver maximum power at the output with with good Quality DC. What should be the scenario in that case. 

Keep in mind that almost every transformer produces some amount of harmonics which make the circuit a little unstable.

Hi
I wonder if you can help ( you may already have a video covering this ?)
I have a PIR on a 8 foot cable , connected to an Arduino.
When I turn on the bathroom , light switch ,I see a 3v spike on the Arduino digital input pin,  ( i am only learning ,but I have a Rigol 1054 )

I have seen your low pass videos.
someone suggested a cap from ground to signal pin , and a cap from vcc to signal pin
Apparently this moves the signal in proportion to a spike on the power rails?

Any chance of a video explaining how to do this?

Also how do I measure mains 240v with my scope ?

There seem to be a lot of scare stories.
I assume I put the scope on x10 connect the ground lead to mains earth and the probe to live or neutral

I am not brave/ stupid enough to try it , without being sure.

Many thanks 
Paul

Why did he use 2(pi) 10 x 10^3 x 10 x 10^-9 instead of 2(pi) 10000 x 10 where did he get those numbers from? I thought we were using R and C? I’m stuck at that part. Can someone please enlighten me?😢

Excuse me, there is some phrases I cannot understand,  in the video, about 00:03:06 
The cut-off frequency is the point where the filtering effect really starts(.......?). It seems that the voice is not the same as the subtitles.  Thank you!

Question: If there are multiple capacitors and resistors in a series before this RC filter, does that affect the equation used to figure out the frequency drop off? 

Hi Afro, love your vids, but, help a thicko out please...what is the symbol after the "2" in the equation? Cheers.

How can you make a pure sine wave out of a modified sine wave from a cheap 12V DC to 220V AC inverter?

at 7:03 that pwm is a dc voltage that goes up and down right? In our school we have been tought that dc does not go through a capacitor. So how does this work?:O

1k resistor with a 4.7 uF cap.   

figured it to be about 33hz or so.... 

i plugged the scary thing in, and it works. it DOES filter.. but it lowers the unfiltered audio A LOT. 

two questions,  first this is for audio levels coming from audio cables correct? shouldn't be used on a amp output? 
also, i wire the positive from audio out to the resistor and negative to the negative on the cap correct?

Cool man, thanks.
But how do you make a filter that works on just 300Hz to 3,000Hz (3kHz)?
In other words, it filters out anything <300Hz and >3kHz.
Such a filter might be useful for listening Human Speech, older recordings & such.

Win amp

@ 2:27 what is the triangle opposite the resistor?

What happens if you switch the position of resistor and capacitor?

Is it possible to design a filter that has a sudden cut off point where the frequency stops dead below or above that frequency OR will this never happen.
ie a low pass filter that stops at 50Hz, so nothing gets past 50Hz and upwards BUT everything below gets through 100%
i.e. 51Hz frequency will 100% not get through, 50Hz will and so will everything under i.e.49Hz to below, is that ever possible??

how the eq actually works isnt an rc filter.  how you blur an image is similar to it!

Great video, at you 7:39 mark where the mean of the filtered DC is slightly less that the mean of the input square wave, could you in software just use a multiplication factor to get the filtered closer? 

Basically I'm using an arduino and a hall effect current sensor (Tamura L01Z050S05) to measure 0-50 amps DC where the power is being controlled via a PWM--basically a PWM DC speed controller. So far, my sensor didn't give a reliable reading so I'll guess a low pass filter on the sensor output is needed??? If that works, i may mess with commng up with some code to scale the filtered value close to the mean of the input. 

Not sure if this sensor will even work.

Any advice welcome.

I have a stereo tube amplifier with a (resistor in series with a capacitor) going to ground. There is one rc between each end of the balance pot. it goes from the balance pot through the resistor then through the capacitor then to ground. What exactly is this doing??

HighOnThunder. It is not nonsense. Having a resistor there limits the amount of current which in turns slows down the charging time constant. You can see it also as the equivalent series resistance or ESR. Ideal capacitors don’t have an ESR. So the current is infinity thus making the change of voltage instantaneous. Unfortunately. the plates act as resistors and thus voltage does not change instantaneously. Solving for the low pass circuit above gives you an exponential equation with a time constant TAO = R*C where the resistor times the capacitor determine the charge time. And thus limits the speed at which the capacitor can be charged and discharged.

+7timesInversed10to11 That's accurate yes

HighOnThunder Then why do you have the resistor? I mean, if it's enough with the capacitor. I've yet to understood this because a capacitor obviously is enough to attenuate the high frequencies.. Is the resistors role to still make sure that the source still sees a specific impedance, ie to protect the source?

I was searching for a good explanation on that too.

Essentially. The circuit above determine how fast it can turn on and off. And if you exceed that time value,  T= RC*5 = 99% charged
then you will begin to attenuate signals since the cap never fully charges. Simple.

Which translates in frequency domain as your corner frequency

the resistor is the impedance value your output to match the impedance of the RC filter but not sure why hes not using a LC filter. most AF work is done with LC networks.  here is a nice filter calculator website.  http://sim.okawa-denshi.jp/en/Fkeisan.htm  you want the resistance/impedance to be the same for the input and output of the filter.  do the math for a 8ohm load see how the cap value changes massively.

Dutch Bibimbap as the freq increases, the capacitor's reactance reduced. At some higher frequencies, the reactance becomes negligibly low behaving like a low resistance in series with the ground. If a series resistance of sufficient resistance is not connected, the signal would be short circuited to ground. This is known as overloading. The series resistance will always provide sufficient resistance to the source even  at the high frequencies where the cap almost lost all its reactance. So, the series resistance prevents overloading of the source.

In that scenario, a passive low pass LC filter will suffice. Can get bulky and sometimes expensive, but gets the job done. Also, consider that the bridge rectifier has its own power loss, due to the diodes voltage drops. An alternative i have found is using a active rectifier, that uses MOSFETs, for minimal voltage drops and power losses.

You could try an RC low pass filter, a zener diode for clamping, or "debounce" code in your arduino.

...to kick in, which is pretty the same as - to start.

Most likely yes. For complex circuits I recommend simulation with LTSpice, FilterCAD or TINA-TI.

I think it is a pi symbol (taking a guess) :)

+BooktownBoy 
its pi

YOu can't just filter cos power loss will be astronomical. first convert that output to dc. and create a SPWM using an HBRidge.....afterwards...filter with LC FILTER FOR SINEWAVE

Not usuful, i want ac power... if i have to convert to dc again it would make no sense...

The way I understand it dc does pass through a capacitor, but once the capacitor is full it no longer allows dc to flow.

i was able to make a couple lpf. one 33 hz and the other 79 hz. the thing is, when i plug them in, the audio level drops so low, i can't hear a thing. unless i crank my amplifier all the way up.. 

what's going on? and how do i solve this issue?   edit: i know what 33 hz and 80 hz sounds like.. its LOW.. i know..

Sir SMKSAlOT u prolly used a high resistance for ur input...which made the output of lpf very low for amplifer to amplify

Hi, wich are you recomended rc values for a woofer at 100w rms? Thank you

igrewold That would be a so called band pass filter. It's a bit more complicated but still doable.

+VoVA Thanks for the reply, but how? And can it be done on the software level? Like on Audacity?
I got some audio files(speeches) with lotsa background noise, it is really hard to listen to the speaker and understand what is being said!
http://www.audacityteam.org/
BTW, get an Orange Pi minicomputer, they are cheap & cool for tampering/learning:
http://v.ht/bgopi http://v.ht/opis http://v.ht/opix
Regards

It really whips the llama's ass.

Kojo terrile That's GND

You get an RC high pass filter! I have a separate video on those.

 @Afrotechmods  Sorry, I wasn't clear. I meant what happens if you move the resistor to the other side of the capacitor in this circuit. Right now the resistor is on the input side of the circuit. What happens if the capacitor stays but the resistor moves to the the other side of the capacitor on the output side of the circuit? Does it make a difference?

Running it through enough filters, you could get it working nicely enough, but it'd be impractical. You'd probably want something else

SP330Y Theoretically, this probably sounds like a great idea. However, especially with audio signals, a 90* change in signal is akin to a square wave. It would be an unnatural transition from 50Hz to the sharp corner of that filter.

Audio at the given frequency would drop to 0 instantaneously.

The best approach, would be to breadboard it so you have that sound to correspond with that particular filter network.

+Kris Kasprzak You could do a software calibration of sorts yes. Depends on your application and how much accuracy you need. I'd recommend you make sure the ADC sampling rate is as high as you can get on your arduino and you are using 10bit resolution because chances are your pwm frequency is >1kHz and you will have a lot of noise in your motor current during each switching cycle. A low pass RC filter may help but you could also benefit from doing averaging in your software e.g. add 8 samples then divide by 8 to get an average.

+Afrotechmods 
Thanks for your feedback. In installed a low pass filter and the signal from my hall effect cleaned up nicely--the higher the PWM frequency the more near DC my signal became.  can now ready amperage from the sensor from a PWM modulated current. I used a 1 mfd and 10K resistor.


My accuracy is close enough (I'm shooting for around 3% or so.) so I probably not do any software corrections.


Thanks again, and excellent videos--at a 200:1 like vs dislike, you should be very proud.

Afrotechmods I have done everything you said and connect them to the speaker. unfortunately there is no sound output. Is this filter is for before amp? I mean preamp? I need a after amp filter. what should I do? thanks for you dedicated support.

Sounds like a classic low pass filter to me

 @Afrotechmods  tried disconnecting it from circuit and it makes bass midrange and treble louder. Kinda weird i thought.

Im trying to reduce the bass in the amp because even with the bass all the way down its still way too much.

at 4:19 the 3 dB decrease shouldn't be a 50% instead? -3dB=10*lg(U) and if you solve it, it gives you 0.5 so it halves the amplitude.  I just don't see how you got the 29.3% decrease

HI Afrotechmods, I dont know what im doing wrong. Im trying to make a subwoofer for my portable speaker system and i couldn't find a 1k resistor for the circuit so i used a 1.5k and a 1uf capacitor. It was electrolytic so idk if that had anything to do with it because you used one on the actual board.  My circuit it instead working as a high pass filter sorta. But not really because the volume is very low? Should i try using a non polarity cap? Or switch the resistor and cap around?

-3dB is not 29.3%. It's 50%. 10^(-0.3) = 0.501

At 6:20...👍

This is the part that doesn't make sense. You say that the cut-off freq is 1/(2*pi*R*C), the magnitude of the impedance of the capacitor is 1/(2*pi*Freq*C) if you use a 10K R and a 10e-9 Cap, you do a voltage divider on the output node at Freq = 1600Hz, Vout/Vin is actually around 0.5 not 0....... I see that it works in the lab, but why does the math not work out?????

The dope song ruined everything

you make an informative video and for that i applaud you

however calling people out for loud car audio is pretty pathetic man...
makes me cool ? , no, not generally but the appreciation i get from some, the smiles, the video's, the trophy's ive won and the handshakes ive gotten makes my day at the time.
have you never heard a system capable of 145+DB that also is a class winner in SQ ? ... i think its time you experienced it rather than being so closed minded.

with that being said with power comes responsibility, going full tilt through the suburbs especially at night is an unwritten rule if your actually loud.

You're confusing power and voltage. -3 dB correlates to a 50% drop in power (Watts), but to a 29.3% drop in voltage (V).

For power gain or attenuation, it's dB = 10 x log10(P-OUT/P-IN).
But for voltage gain or attenuation, it's dB = 20 x log10(V-OUT/V-IN).
So here dB = 20 x log10(7.07/10), which is 20 x log10(0.707), or 20 x -0.15 = -3 dB.

The voltage equation is derived from the power equation by recalling that P = V x I and  I = V/R, so P = V x V/R = V^2/R
Substituting for P, we have dB = 10 x log10[(V-OUT^2/R) / (V-IN^2/R)] which equals 10 x log10[(V-OUT/V-IN)^2]
Because log10(x^2) is the same thing as 2 x log10(x), the above can be rearranged to dB = 20 x log10(V-OUT/V-IN)

Easy peasy. lol

This also explains the ("decade") attenuation of 20 dB when the voltage amplitude decays by a factor of 10.

dB = 20 x log10(1/10) = 20 x -1 = -20 dB

You cant use an RC filter for a crossover after an amplifier like you are trying to do. The series resistance limits the current. You could only do it before the preamp. If you want a filter after the amp going to the woofer you need an LC filter.

Afrotechmods I noticed that and i fixed it! Thanks for verifying my fix though, I also watch alot of your other vids and they help me make some cool circuits! Thanks for the help and vids!

do you have a guide for that? i have the same issue with my sub too. I am kinda new to electronics too, could you help me out with a link for a LC filter?

kanari madar RC filters need to be on the low level input side of the subwoofers amplifier.

ohh, got it thanks

kanari madar No problems! If you have any other questions feel free to ask!

today i made a new filter, and it's still not working. My con is cap. is 330 nF and my resistor is 5 ohm. that's roughly 2500hz, isn't it? my first attempt was with 100ohm and 15nF and the cap went kaput, and I switched to a 5ohm res, cuz i thought 100 ohm is too much so there is little output that's why its not working. But now i double checked everything with the new setup and it's still not working. My speaker is SAL SBX 2530/BK. My amp is a simple desk stereo speaker, a kinda expensive one doe. i want to build a low pass filter, with a cut off 2500 hz. I would like to put the filter after the amp. if i put it before,the other speaker's wont work. What do you suggest? Is my filter's parts too bad, or there is a problem with the amp?
An LC filter wouldn't be bad either, but i can't find the desing for a 2500 hz  cutoff. I would really appreciet your help! :) thank you already!

ok, i kinda worked it out. My idea is get a crossover and not a filter. It's like the LC filter. it's better that way

hi. can you please share it with me. how did you solve this problem
please share the circuit.

so i thought i put too much resistenc. I made an LC filter, with 100mh and dunno how much capacity. Now i got a filter at 200hz. I used this filter after the amplifier. If you can, put it before you amplify the sound. i cound't.

Dániel Sályi Use a RC filter if you want to filter before amplification, Use LC if you want to filter after Amplification. RC I found better when I finished my project a while back.

Additionally, -20dB is not "by a factor of 10", it's actually by a factor of 100.

Cut-off frequency is the -3dB point, that means half the original amplitude.

Ahh I see.

