Great video , I wanted to build autonomous drone using only Raspberry Pi and now , I know it is better to have separate microcontroller for stabilisation.

This is an amazing video that pulls together many complex concepts and organizes them into a singular, high-level overview of how the system works as a whole. I find that taking a step back and looking at the whole picture makes it easier to grasp the smaller concepts. I am putting together an RPAS course and will definitely be using a version of your flight controller and flight computer diagrams to show how all of the data works with one another to achieve stabilization while performing intelligent functions such as APAS. Thank you

This video has very important and the very basic information if you are just starting out with autonomous drones,
**Very important**

this is the best explaination ive heard yet.

You've earned a sub

Thank you for this awesome video. Now that I understand the complexities I believe it will be even more challenging for me to implement an autonomous flight for a drone that is supposed to fly near an uninhabited coastline. This implies multiple targets and training the drone for each even though I do not have an exact list of all the possible targets the drone can encounter. Will definitely check your other videos. Thumbs up of course.

Finally find out the answer, why to use flight controller while you can code it and they are expensive. Thank you

Wow, awesome video

Great content 👍

Awesome Video , Thank you very much for this

Well laid out. Thanks.

Very well introduced

Very interesting video about diff between flight computer VS flight controler with clear information. 
Thanks for sharing with us !

The clear and complete explanation I have never seen before. Congratz.

Great explanation! Thanks.

Thanks for explaining this.

very interesting!!! great work!

Thanks, Nicholas - great intro' - TY! :D

I am very new. Your teaching style is really awesome

It was really helpful. Thank you

Did you do it?

I concur what George said.

Very helpful video, Thanks

Very easy to understand 😊

Very good vdo that for get robust understanding.

Thank you for the great video. I've recently been interested in drones and the diy side of building them. I appreciate your hard work 🤘🏼

excellent wxplanation

Thank you.

Great I have a project that might need you

this opens up a whole new way of thinking for me.   WOW!

You can isolate flight controller process on one cpu core of flight computer

💓

Buzz Feed: I was thinking of races that used Co-Ords to get from P1 to P2, then get fed New Co-Ords to get to another point. 
I now wonder what would be faster if the learning AI Drone was involved?

What is best learning path can I follow to build drone ?
I'm an Ai student and recently I have taken an full embedded systems course .

Hi, I'm interested in building an autonomous drone, but I'm unsure about where to start, which components to choose specially the flight controller. 
Thanks

Hello Sir,
I have a Question?
Can I use that Receiver which is used in Brushed motor Drones (Like syma X8pro Receiver) to make a Brushless Motor Drone ? 
If Yes then How, any way?
pleaseeee Explain, Sir......

I can run arudpilot on a Kakute f7 mini v2 thats the size of a pack of matches (seriously, look it up) and the cpu doesnt get bogged down running a few basic peripherals. If anybody is looking to make their RC plane autonomous just start with an Omnibus f4 board and install arduplane. The amount of things you can do with a $30 board and an open source flight platform is truly unreal.

Would a pixhawk be enough to fly an autonomus drone? (Very basic functions)

I m hoping to see more tutorial on drone setup and  programming the drones for autonomous applications.
Please reply if ww can have a tutorial

Dear sir, can we use python to control any drone such as Dji Mavic, DJI Air2s... Can you show me some drones that I can employ Python to control it ? Thank you so much.

But how exactly will my computer override the controllers mission, say I am planning a mission on pixhawk fc using QGC and I also want to do precision landing using aruco markers, so how do I make the controller-computer understand that as soon as the drone is above aruco markers, it should switch to precision landing algorithm and land on aruco marker...even if that means aborting the mission path assigned in QGC.

Where could I find this flight computer code? Thank you in advance.

Thanks Kevin, glad you learned something

 @NicholasRehm  video is really informative. Can we use lidar sensor for obstacle avoidance in pixhawk flight controller drone and fly it autonomously using mission planner's way points ?

You can’t do machine learning or computer vision or advanced motion planning on and f4 with ardupilot... just gps waypoint missions

 @NicholasRehm  Oh no no I wasnt talking about machine learning or computer vision, I was just talking about how easy it is to get started in the drone world these days.. I guess it wouldnt really be fully autonomous though

Might do something on autonomous motion planning soon

Hello! I'm about to graduate from computer science. And, I'd love to know where I can find more information about how the flight computer of a drone works and how to program it. In the near future, I'd love to merge that with autonomous decision-making by using some kind of machine learning algorithm. Which sources would be helpful to dive deep into it and know all of its inner workings that will bring me closer to the goal that I have in mind? Thank you!!

Xylinx

Could you possibly do a video on how to communicate with a flight controller using a flight computer? You give the example of ROS for a flight computer, but doesn't that require your flight controller to use ROS in order to receive ROS messages?

heh.  to me a flight controller is a black box.  I just use the flight computer to requests flighter controller actions.

What is the material

A very crude analogy, would be horse - rider... Horse (flight controller) deals with low level commands ( standing- moving etc) while a rider  (flight computer) deals with the high level commands... At least that's my understanding of the relationship. Therefore, the smartest horse, vs the smartest horse with a trained rider will be more efficient.

"missile knows where it is "

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bZe5J8SVCYQ

I am more concerned about different supply voltages of pi, controller and motor. Can I use same battery to power all 3 or something else?

Nothing like rc planes of the 1980s and early 1990s probably up until 96 easy.

You actually flew them. No computer help. All mechanical.

No fly by camera either.

Cameras was too large and heavy so no cockpit view then. They used vhs and took full size vhs foe vcr tapes then later micro vhs tapes came out that was similar to cassette for music.

Commonly wings was Styrofoam with a thin plastic or vinyl wrap.

A lot of them used jet fuel. Not all and they couldn't stay up very long and only people crashed alot until they got good so was very expensive hobby.

My dad had an airplane and a helicopter. They used jet fuel. Wasn't fast or anything but did go a decent speed and altitude. We had less restrictions on those than drones.

Could someone please explain if their are any mechanical components to the gyroscope or gyroscopes in the DJI mavic 2 pro quad or is it completely a software solution, for want of a better term?      Thank you.

I am working with a missionary group.  We have a need to modify the location stored in the return to home function to a new location in the flight controller.  I was wondering if you know, if this can be done with your drone control card.

question: can we couple a flight computer to the DRehmFlight ???

Thank you. If I want to start by building a remote controlled drone, I won't need an on-board computer right? just a flight controller (microcontroller)?

Are there any useful resources for getting the two components to communicate with one another?

can be autonmous without GPS? I want from A to B but no GPS only data read from sensore and come compas to see where is northpole. I think can work. Specially in cave where no gps signal.

Simple thing.. DJI has better Flight controller and SKYDIO has better flight Computer.

Flight computer are programmable, or I have to design my own for an experimental aircraft?

I'll be honest.  I don't like this 'definition' at all.  I think it makes things more confusing.  It would have made more sense in my opinion to simply state that a flight controller is a dedicated microcontroller for a drone or flight device, while a flight computer would just be a computer that has been purposed for the use of flying a drone.  This is the logic that is used in automotive and other industries.

pdf

Some of my videos on flight controller stuff might give you a decent intro to the basics, but I would suggest you start looking through the documentation on the ROS wiki. ROS can help you integrate anything (sensors/algorithms) you want + more. If you're more interested in GPS-based navigation and just that, the ardupilot wiki is your best bet

Step 1: get a drone!

One way is to use the the pixhawk eco system of flight controllers. Then you can use the mavlink protocol to communicate from a flight computer e.g raspberry pi to the flight controller e.g. px4.

If building everything from scratch you could develop and use a canbus system to communicate between flight computer and flight controller.

ROS can run a simple serial node that can send mavlink messages or sbus, as an example

It’s generally best practice to have separate propulsion and avionics batteries to prevent voltage spikes from the power system getting into the avionics. Avionics battery needs a regulator to bring down the voltage (usually 5v for flight controller + computer)

Completely software

My drone control card can only return to your home specifically, sorry

Sure

Hovering RC just requires stabilization from a flight controller

Depends on your systems... mavlink serial between ardupilot/ros comes to mind. If you're running something like betaflight for stabilization, you might need to spoof a radio receiver protocol like ppm or sbus from your computer

 @NicholasRehm  Thank you for your response! After watching your video I've been working on a project, trying to send sensor data connected to the Rpi through the flight controller .  I'm having a bit of trouble formatting the sensor data into a mavlink frame and sending it through the flight controller to a GCS using mavproxy. Are there any videos you recommend or resources? I've been scouring ardupilot forums, wiki, and youtube, but haven't had any luck.

SLAM stands for simultaneous localization and mapping. From Wikipedia: (SLAM) is the computational problem of constructing or updating a map of an unknown environment while simultaneously keeping track of an agent's location within it.
Hopefully this will give you a few search terms to help you find the information you're looking for.

Thanks for the interesting video Nicholas Rehm.

Yes--GPS-denied autonomy is a very interesting field. You will need some way of localizing within your environment, either cameras, lidar, or a combination

It depends on what you're trying to do and what board you're using

 @NicholasRehm  I want to code a stability augmentation system(SAS) for a naturally instable plane, currently I'm using a RPI Zero W with Linux, should I use another chip to do all the SAS, IMU and fusion calculation?

