This teacher is really good. Thank you :)

Best video on state space introductory equations on youtube

Thanks for this beautiful presentation!

BEST VIDEO FOR THE STATE SPACE MODEL REPRESENTATION OF A EC-cIRCUIT .

This video is worth gold

brilliant explanation ! thanks a lot

Much love from Kenya. That was phenomenal.

I learned Circuits II and Cyber Physical Systems in one video. Amazing.

Thank you so much!!  This was so helpful!

Solved a lot of confusions i had of state space equation formation. Real good teaching ^^

Nice, simple example circuit and very well explained.

Thank you sir. It was incredible

super genius

thank you sooo much , you are the best

Sir, this is so incredibly helpful. Thank you so much.

This was a very good exercise, thank you!

very concise and simple. thanks for the video

Thank you, ever so much

Really Valuable.... thank you sir U saved me 🔥❤️

Thank you. this example really helped me in understanding state space

Thank you so much!

great video. thank you!

Gerçek kahraman

You are a legend.

your ability to write backwards is amazing

Why YouTube is suggesting me this after I took this exam just today😭😭

How can we solve this if instead of the variables we were given actual numbers instead of L2, C, and L1

9:20

Thank you very much Sir. Why did you write the bottom row of the A matrix in red colour?-

biblical

Good content, but the lighting is kind of dramatic.

are you right-handed by any chance?

How do you define at the beginning what would be the size of the x matrix. Can you please explain why we choose 1*3 matrix for x (x1;x2;x3). and why we chose 2 currents and 1 voltage. could we chose other quantities such as q (charge) or like 2 voltages and 1 current?

High sir, are we allowed to assume steady state condition before solving?

Sir which kind of board u are using

My ADHD ass just trying to comprehend what is filming setup is lol, green screen and mirror!?

Here is the full lecture where your question in explained in detail: https://youtu.be/uIeFqmSB_K0

 @biomechlab  Thank you soo much! God bless

No, a state space  model always includes the transient.

 @biomechlab   Appreciate the prompt reply! I understand now.

1" thick plexiglass

