This is honestly the BEST explanation of PID. I’ve watched many videos on it and read articles. I’ve just hear that it’s an “art” or that it’s something debated about, but nothing like this. This just straight into the facts and math.

I have watched many videos on PID control, but this is the one where it finally clicked.

I have watched many PID controllers video and forget it everytime. After watching this, I will not forget PID anymore.

Probably the BEST video on PID controllers.

im gonna cry. took an entire feedback control class and understood PID controllers better from this 22 minute video than a 5 week long class...

very VERY underrated video on PID controller. Great examples for each of the elements of the PID-controller.

This is the nicest PID video I have ever seen. Thanks for your best!!!

Would have been amazing if my Control Systems professor had just played this video for us

Way better than my university class

Imagine a 22min video explaining PID better than a 5y engineering degree

Shawn, you are such an excellent presenter!   Looking forward to more.  I really loved your KiCad tutorial series also.

Been looking to get deeper into PID controllers. Perfect timing on the video.

the best explanation on the PID controller I've ever seen on YouTube. thanks

hey man thank you so much for this beautifull video im searching for this concept for 4 hours finally after watching your video i got full clarity if anyone want to get full clarity on PID controller trust me this video is perfect

Shawn, this is one of the best explanation on PID, thanks a lot.

Shawn, another fantastic video. Thank you DigiKey!!

One of the best video that actually help you to understand how a PID controller works.

Brilliant!  I love that the PID controller applies to so many widely varying systems... massive boilers operating on hour time scales, or as fast as modern motor controllers in the millisecond range.

Honestly, this is the BEST explanation of PID, although the SUM column is summed wrong.

This plus my Lin con class would have been great back in the day😂

Glad you liked it! Tuning them can be a bit of an art, which I only briefly covered here :)

Same here, even some of the "better" articles would neglect or leave out one element or another. He covered each mode and key aspects so well- it was like I could "see" each mode in action just from his explanations. TYVM, Shawn! I plan to share this with my class and possibly an instructor from a previous class.

 @JL-to9vg  Thank you! I hope that your students find the explanation useful!

I really like the simple numbers to demonstrate the principal. This guy is helpful. Got my pico/ pico debug with other videos. Now I am back, going to build the PID into a pico.

Exactly

Same here, finally I can wrap my head around this after so many other videos

Same here

who paid you

Same!!

😂

I still refer back to that series when I work on my boards

This is an amazing explanation of PID THANK YOU!

Thank you so much, best explanation on youtube!

This is the only video we can get calculations

Best explanation of PID EVER!

one of the best explanation by so far in my life as student! thanks man! You got a new sub! I hope you keep doing videos about this topic! thnaks a lot!!!

Shawn this was so good I wish my controls profs were this clear 😭😭😭😭

Very best video on PID I have ever come across on the internet 🎉

I though I could never understand PIDs. Great video.

I was trying to understand this as an programmer for almost a year now finally I get it.

This is the best video on PID!

Excellent video. Explanation was very good.

man those formulas are SCARY!!!!

Best video explanation i have ever seen

Excellent presentation as always!

Excellent description!

Great explanation for us dummies.🙏🏼.

I could say this is the best explanation ever for a PID Controller

Don't know why I chose this video but its so good!

This is such a good explanation

This is the best explanation of PID so far 🤩

excellent explanation

That is an excellent presentation. Best one I've seen that describes in detail actually what the P, I & D do.

Half way through and hands down best explanation

One of the Best Video, I never watched so far.... Thank you a lot

Brilliant - I mean who needs Brilliant when you have DigiKey :)

Nice explanation, Shawn! I liked that there was a bit of math and a bit of code. PS: nice meeting you last week :)

This is the best PID video, by far. It's very clear and easy to understand

I have never heard an excellent explanation like this on PID control. Thank you so much. Now I understood it very well and I got some peace of mind...

The best PID video available on youtube 😂 thank you my friend!

Thank you Shawn for diving into PID controllers. This is extremely helpful.

There was such clarity and continuity in the explanations...
Really liked and understood the concept clearly ....
This was really helpful ....

This video is amazing and explains PID in such a clear way.

Amazing video - clear, visually understandble, with a nice host.

Awesome video. I have never come across such cleanly explained example.

THE BEST EXPLAINATION EVER!!!!

Incredibly well-explained video. Thank you so much for such an amazing demonstration. That was the best one I've ever seen about PID controllers.

This is the best video I've ever seen in my previous 3 years. Thank you so much for making this masterpiece.

Great video, very clear. Thank you !

Excellent video, thanks to you and your team for spending the time to put together this very useful video!

The best PID control explanation.

you are beyond awesome!!! what a smooth explanation! My PID worked in one shot following your lines....Thanks

I just learned about PIDs from John Denver.

brings back memories of my controls class. I thinks that's when I discovered antacid.😎

Very clear and helpful, thanks!

Life makes much more sense now :D

By far, the best explanation on the PID's principle I ever have come across. 22 mn to learn more than during entire engineering sessions back in a day. This is a master class. Congratulations.

Very nice explanation! Thank you.

I can't tell you how helpful this video has been and how often I keep coming back to it as a reference. Thank you!

Very nicely explained

This was great! Thanks for the informative lecture!

Best explanation ❤

You're awesome! Wonderfully well-explained!

Great video, as usual Shawn is great explaining things in the simplest way.

Best ever pid explanation

This is an excellent explanation of the PID controller. Thank you so much for sharing this.

Very useful video, thanks.

Great video! Started as a noob, ended as a semi-PRO😎

You are excellent….hats off to you for explaining the “offset” phenomenon of Proportional only controller.

I have watched many videos on PID , but this is the one from which I understand, Thanks

Wow one of the best teaching abilities with proper block diagram and proper use of graphs 👍

Shawn I have always loved your work no matter the topic. But this was awesome

Thanks Shawn for this wonderful tutorial. You covered it in the most intuitive logical and exciting way. The best video on the subject. :)

Beautifully explained. Thanks .

cruise control system was exact example what came to my mind as first when try to explain others:-)

Great video Shawn, out of all the courses I've taken about PID loops you've really explained the principles and terms spot on!

Beautifully explained PID

perfect video with comprehensive explanation.

efficient explanation of PID

Thank you for sharing your knowledge.

Props!  College level stuff here AND its accessible, even to beginners.

I've been looking for a lot of PID controller materials, and this one is the most comprehensive. We see the math in a graphical way, where to apply it, examples of systems, and even a code example to understand how to convert to the digital domain. 10/10.

The beginning 60 seconds demystify the block diagram so much

What a great demonstration! Thanks a lot

Clarity clarity and clarity
God bless

11:54 here you can see clearly how an integral controller corrects the accumulated error. Excelent video

I love you bro.  thanks for filling in the gaps of my knowledge.  I have been using the STM32 nucleo family to build a UAV controller.  definately perfect timing for me too.

I wish digikey made an applied control engineering series with python and hardware they sell

Thanks for the explanation.. we need another video illustrate PID using Arduino

Brilliant, thank you.

My billion dollar idea is controllers that goes to 11.

Spinal Tap?

loved it . simple and easy to understand .

Wish I had you as my teacher when I was coming through the trade! I never claimed to be a sharp knife in a drawer, takes me more time for this material to stick. God Bless You for sharing this video.

absolutely brilliant. Thank you shawn.

Thank you. It's a very useful video.

Amazing brilliant video and explanations

I’d like to hit the like button a thousand times

thats great ecplanation

Thanks Shawn, good example to follow with coding. Will try a desktop example with Arduino code.

my fav man on ytb:yt:🤩

Very good

This is so good!

teaching genius :)

Excellent

Awesome video

i wish PID in universities were as simple as this :)

NICE one..Thanks!

Excellent!

Great explanation

"You set Ki and Kd to zero and leave Kp at some low value.   You increase Kp until the output oscillates with some steady state offset.  You then increase Ki until you correct the steady state offset even if that means more oscillation.  Just make sure the output does not become unstable and oscillates out of control.  Finally adjust Kd to remove the oscillations.  At the end of the process you should have an optimally tuned system.

Note there are other tuning schemes such as the Ziegler-Nichols method or you can use some math to help you choose Ki and Kd to reduce the trial and error that is needed."

I have watched a few tutorials on this subject and have never heard someone explain it so succintly.  The tutorial was exceptional both in the manner in which it was explained and in visual presentation.  Very well done sir.  👍🙌💯🙂

Realllllly excelllent vediooooooooooo

I'm guessing that they give you the transfer function of the plant and have you solve the differential equation analytically. If so, yeah...that sounds rough 😅

 @ShawnHymel  Exactly. Just to know in the next subject that everything of that has no real application because real world 'behaviour formulas' are complex and computers don't process feedback in real time.

Good  explanation

What a complicated way to explain how to drive a car.

Love the bow tie

Excellent ❤

thanks a lot , thanks thanks

Great explanation, is the best that I saw until now. The time interval should be in seconds ?

thank you ❤

Now we need a new method AIPID, or PIDAI.  Where we slap AI to the PID for it to figure out the prefect values for us.

The classical formulation with separate gains is often used in academia, but not by practitioners. Industrial control engineers have realised it's usually much better to use the "standard" parametrisation, with Kp as a master gain, expressed as a proportional band, and Ki and Kd being 1/Ti and 1/Td respectively. The integral and derivative times relate to physical properties of the system, making it easier to derive reasonable values based on prior experience, and keep relative PID contributions in proportion when adjusting KP.

goated video

Hello

Just my own comment to your fine explanation.

I have a hydraulic project where I have to control the force from a cylinder through a load cell.

What makes hydraulics special is the response time. 
The used servo valves have a 0-50% opening time of 6 msec (common in servovalves). That's why I must use a PID regulator with a cycle time of 1 - 2 ms.
There is only an expensive servo controller that can do that, or an analog PID controller, that I used.

Another part you easily skip over is the partial feedforward. It is frequently used in hydraulics.

The situation at 11.51 illustrate another common practical problem, overshoot in control signals, where the actuators cannot answer to signals potentially confusing any overall control loops that assume this to be possible. dynamic range ....

thanks

I think introducing distance at 5:50 unnecessarily complicates the concept of proportional control, since in this case it's accumulative with time.

Great video, very informative thank you. However can someone please say why the integral term Ki value was set to 0,01 in the example?

PID Controllers are used in commercial HVAC,  P (proportional only) , PI and PID

P (only) 

For example, to heat a classroom, using wall radiators installed under windows, P (only) proportional is used. Normally the thermostat is near the door entrance. This works well because, the the rise and fall in temperature (error from setpoint)  is very ,very slow (integral) using natural convection from the radiator. 
 
PI 

If the same classroom was using hot air for heating,  PI is used. The rise a fall in temperature (error from setpoint) can move faster, since you are forcing air around the room. An integral (or time based approach) help prevent rapid overheating / underheating from the setpoint. The mass majority of commercial thermostats use PI. 

PID 

Normally not used in a classroom, but rather in highly critical locations, like a lab, hospital or food processing use the (D) derivative part keep the room as close to exactly to setpoint without overheating or underheating

There is an incredible amount of money to be made being a PID loop tuner. You roam around the country fixing "loops" and because it is hard, they pay you big $$$, because you are either saving them money or it is required for their business.

Good explanation but in reality, it is still hard to tune.

God! Very very God!!!

❤

Now…. How do you make the tuning automatic/dynamic/inteligent 😜

You read my mind 😁 There are automated methods of finding PID constants, which have been in use for a while. I’m currently experimenting with using RL to figure out a generic controller (including swing-up). My hope is that this will be the next video.

GOOD GOOD

do you mean s=s0 + vt + ½at^2 balancer (position, speed, acceleration controller)

Endlich, nach ein paar Jahren mit diesen Erklärungen, konnte ich verstehen, was PID ist... Finally, after a few years with these explanations, I was able to understand what it is PID :face-blue-smiling::face-blue-smiling::face-blue-smiling:

How is e(t) a wave curvy functions it should be linear

20:18 setpoint was not defined, what is setpoint? Is that the set value we need?

Also error_prev should be set equal to error at the end of the loop right

Nvm I just wasn’t there yet lol

Electronic PID control is not to be used as widespread as they are !
When that said, PID is / has been a true game changer in dynamic system control.

Hello....  i m learning a lot from your video...manage to construct a circuit and its working perfectly now! thank you very much ! I have a question here: if i have a motor with the following spec. • Inertia (J) = 0.01 kg·m²
• Damping (B) = 0.1 N·m·s (friction)
• Back EMF Constant (Ke) = 0.01 V·s/rad
• Torque Constant (Kt) = 0.01 N·m/A
•Motor Resistance (R) = 1 Ω
•Motor Inductance (L) = 0.01 H
and i wana achieve speed control with: Zero overshoot, Minimal Settling Time, <5% Steady State-Error, please advise what should i do? TQ

A car wouldn't have any overshoot if you just kept it floored until your set speed, would it? So wouldn't you only use the PID after you got up to speed? Maybe that will be part of the next episode.

Anyway, thanks for the video, it helped explain PIDs nicely, looking forward to the next one.

What confuses me is how are  we converting  output of pid control to pedal position. The output is just a number and how are we eqauting that to some other quantity

11:51 These go to 11.

Is it smart to use DoE or Bayesian Optimization to tune a PID controller? I'm planning to use the NovoNordisc ProcessOptimizer package to use Bayesian Optimization, but searching in the parameter space without much understanding of the PID controller (other than the lower and upper boundaries of the P, I and D terms) will probably be difficult because you need quite a lot of samples. Like searching for a gold nugget in an empty space.

The green box e(t) at 5:46 should not be there. Secondly, the output from the proportional controller is the pedal's angular position according to your context. This angular position can be achieved through a servo motor or similar actuator mechanism. The theoretical explanation is wrong.

How do you define interval? Like if I'm reading sensor value at every 1msec then interval =1msec????

Very confusing to me, you start by saying 5 cm pedal position = 100 km/h then immediately contradict that on first calculation showing pedal position 10 cm yielding 30 km/h.

too confusing

While this explanation is of course correct, the presentation here is very poor, I recommend other videos, the graphs for instance, just graphing 'error' is weak pedagogy, for the classic speed example, you should be graphing speed vs t at the very least, and even better, animating a car or a dash speedo. PID is very simple, if you have ever played with a spring, like everyone has, this concept is trivial, but the math symbology and the control theory archaic jargon confuse everyone.

Don't guess or use ancient tuning method.

2:53 “accelerometer”? We don’t have electronics in our brain. We have vestibular canals,

Is it wrong to add a proportional offset, like:
output = k_p * (error + 30)
Is it wrong to be non linear, like:
output = (k_p * error * error)

Or combine them; both as part of a PID. The first will work more naturally depending on the system? Not sure. The second one will try to close the gap much quicker without creeping up on it?

thanks

You’d have to precisely let off the pedal at the right moment. The car has inertia and there is a time constant associated with the moment the pedal position changes to the moment the engine changes the torque applied to the wheels. All of that results in you having to letting off the pedal BEFORE the speed set point is achieved. Otherwise there would definitely be overshoot.

​ @dwang085  My question was meant to be more about initial values, starting/stopping point for the PID and maybe when to use/swap out the PID. Sorry if I come across as nitpicking the model.

But using it as an example:
As soon as you stop adding power, it would stop going faster (well unless you are going downhill etc. but that sort of thing should be outside the model) And the amount of inertia needed to be overcome to move the pedal position would be small enough I don't think it would matter, probably even happen before the next piston power stroke. Especially with fuel injection etc. And even if it would take a very small amount of time for the accelerator to move, you could still hand over at 99.9km/h. (Although I guess whatever you are using to automatically move the pedal could be quite slow (erm, do they even move the pedal nowadays?))


As for the car, engine, flywheel etc. inertia would help keep the current speed. It can't add speed, or you would have a perpetual motion machine.

So you shouldn't need the PID until you are up to speed? 

Anyway, my point being that in similar cases wouldn't it be better to hand over to the PID after a certain point, maybe with initial values taken from a table etc?

Glad someone caught that minor Spinal Tap reference :D

Yup

First, "5 cm yield 100 km/h" means after you get to 100 km/h, if the pedal at the 5cm, the speed stay at 100 km/h and won't change.
Second, it is "10 cm at 30 km/h" not "10 cm yielding 30 km/h". 10 cm at 30 km/h just means the car is at 30 km/h and it is accelerating

