I’m 60 years old and I have seen hundreds of videos on electronics.  This is, undoubtedly, the best explanation I have ever seen.  Subbed.

Been working in electronics for 3 years now and I like watching these videos whenever I have those brain freezes and I need a refresher 🤣

In my 4 years of studying elecrical engineering, never seen such a excellent example like this

Kids are so lucky with the amount of resources available to them.  I am jelly, wish I had this stuff in my schooling.

I am 72 years old, hold a 2 year degree in electronics and was a product manager for 28 years for RF and DC calibration products sold directly to NIST. I wish your videos were around when I was a young student. Learning would have been much easier. Great presentation! Thanks!

19 YEARS INTO MY TRADE I NOW UNDERSTAND .... WHAT A GREAT EXPLANATION ...THANKS

By far the best video on this topic, period. Brilliant explanation, brilliant analogy, brilliant animation. The world needs more people like you. Hats off to you and your team for working this hard!

Im an ancient 493 year old man, and this is by far the great explanation i have ever seen across the centuries I have roamed this earth. Liked, subscribed, and rang the bell.

If a picture can speak a thousand words, a video speaks a trillion. And this video in particular proves that these statements are true. Thanks 👍

Tuvok narrating basic EE concepts is awesome 😉

This brought me back to my electronic engineering class! We were taught using the same analogy way back in 1980!

I didn’t get it at school but now I’ve got it. Many thanks sir

Excellent. All stuff I knew 50+ years ago as an engineering student, but forgot. Great re-education for me.I cannot wait to see more of your videos. The diaphragm and water wheel did the trick to making it understandable.

the best electricity channel in all of history , please keep posting

absolute knowledge and I bet that my teacher woudnt teach me like that, hats off to U Prof Mad

I need to get this back in my head.

Being an electrical undergrad, I appreciate your analogy of inductor and capacitor. The whole duration of this video never had an breaking point of the understanding.

This is the greatest description of anything I have ever watched👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽

Loved the analogy with water flow. This video cleared alot of doubts i had. Thanks a lot👍

this is the clearest video I've ever seen

Glad to help <3

Yes- excellent explanation- much appreciated!

I totaly agree with you 👍🏻

There is no age for learning😢

I am 58 years old  I am from India 🇮🇳 thank you very much 🙏🏻 The best explanation I have  ever seen. 🎉God bless you.👍🙏🏻

most people are visual learner
visual make it simple

Yeah! That visual with the diaphragm was cool!

Math is so much easier

I agree. I have a test Friday and this taught me more than what my teacher taught us.

I agree! It was the visualization of familiar terms using the graphs that really made it click for me.

Thank you

Thanks for this 🎉

The capacitor analogy killed me!

Amen - not quite 60 but I have been an EE for 30+ years - The...Best...Video - shared it immediately with my daughter

Agreed.

I'm 67 and I agree wholly with you.

true

I agree 💯

The best explanation  for AC and DC behaviour, really amazing captivating.

The best explain that I have ever seen ! You are the best

😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂

I really appreciate it ❤❤❤

Where is your YouTube channel

So sad AI voice channels are being praised, but I can't hate on those who are satisfied as they've learned the things they were interested in learning

Fix. Your name boomer

​ @anakin_piewalker1458 Don't be so insulting Gen Z.

Same here...

This is my kind of humor 💀

vampire child of cain, finally you decided to get on with the technology, my respects to you ancient one, can i ask, was napoleon actually short?

When 493 years old you reach, explain this as good you will not. Hmmm?

😂😂😂😂 i totally agree with you 😅😅

Chapeau for starting a new career at 393 👏

You are welcome. Keep in touch.

Man- you made thing's so simple for me to understand!

Given the much complex nature of stuff to grasp - your animations really are worthwhile n efforts r laudable!!! 👍

thank you,  this will help me remember the principles

am Jesus and this is undoubtedly the best video on whatever concept this is

Great job, if only school and college would explain things this way. I'm gonna stick around.

Best analogy so far

Prof indeed! This is a fantastic video explaining these concepts. There could be no better explanation. Thanks a gazillion.

Best video found ever for this explanation.thank you so much❤

The water wheel analogy was great

Ideal balance of brevity and completeness. Bravo.

With no doubts the best Video I have seen about this topic

Very well explained using insightful animations/illustrations. 🦉

Best animation, best example, nice explanation, thanks for the awesome content 🤩

At minute 1:30 so far so good I am starting to get excited

The water analogy is genius. I never pictured it that way.

nicely put together, well done! I only recently learned the differences, but this is an excellent: what-is-what explanation. thank you

Even my kernel appreciates the video

Nice explanation.  Many moons ago when I was in the Navy electrician school they taught us "ELI the ICE man" to help us remember.  Voltage leads current in an inductive circuit = ELI  and current leads voltage in a capacitive = ICE.  Of all the things I did forget that was one of the things which stuck.

Thank you. Best explanation I’ve heard in 42 years

This video was a refresher for me.  I am going to introduce it to my HVAC/R  class.  Thanks professorM

Damn you deserve the whole world.

Glad to help!

Thank you so much 😀

Awesome, thank you!

Another way is to remember - CIVIL- Capacitor - I current leads Voltage, Inductor (L) , current lags Voltage.

Same with me.  Except I was Air Force.  
One other thing I learned in my Air Force electronics training was that current flowed from negative to posiitive.  After the AF I went to college to get an EE degree.  There they taught current flow from positive to negative.

Thank you soo much.

As Noah's 4,234 year old son, I have never seen an example as clear as this! Struggled understanding the concept before, now I can go and build the second tower of Babel without any difficulties. Subscribed!

the clarity of understanding , i received was incredible

Colleges are the most useless place I've been to😢

Best circuit graphics I have ever seen!

VERY well done. Never understood this stuff until now. Excellent visuals and explanation. Thank you very much.

undoubtedly it is the best video on electronics that I have seen

Best explanation I've seen in my life.

OMG this channel needs way many more subscribers

I'm a ghost from 1845, never in my 178 years of being dead have i seen a better explanation than this, thank you so much.

Thank you for explaining this really helps a lot for my college degree studies....

I wish my old electrical lecturer (RIP Charlie) had access to this video in 1976. The best description of impedance I have ever seen. Thanks and keep up the good work.

Best explanation of resistance, reactance and impedance I have ever seen, thank you.

45 years later, and I finally grok capacitors (in signal circuits, specifically). You did that. Thank you.

This video is by far the best video I have ever seen

The best explanation for the difference between resistane, reactance and impedance I have ever seen. Thanks for the video 😃

Good job prof MAD!!

Best AC Analogy to date my brother! This is going to help a lot of people understand impedances! 😲😲😲😲😲😲😲😲

Thank you for pointing out electron flow.

Should also cover Admittance, Conductance, and Susceptance - Helpful in parallel circuit analysis.

What a brilliant video.
Thank you so much.
I have been trying to find an easy way to understand this for years.

"Now I can go and build the second tower of Babel without any difficulties!"
God:

I AM NOAH

Huh

professors don't put any extra  efforts  for teaching. Just changing hundreds of slides in one hours

Bro college is a good place but the way of teaching is old shit.

Why say so

college is like a vip(judging by the tuition) private club where you pay for entering to hang out with people of the same interest as yours

I totally agree with that 👍

True, they are just good for the certificate or diploma, afterwards

Yes you're totally right

How? Don't they teach you guys well?

Its the most honorable comment on the internet. Its a plsce of danger.

Or at least the classes teaching grammar were.

You get out what you put in chief

Glad it was helpful!

What is grok

 @mar-tin702  Old farter's language.
grok — verb groks, grokking, grokked [with obj.] understand (something) intuitively or by empathy ■ [no obj.] establish a rapport

Thank you.

Grok is more of a computer software term. Rather than electronic.

 @Lagerfanny-g7e 

Stranger in a Strange Land by Robert A. Heinlein (English) Paperback Book

Just remember that this was an example of a coupling capacitor configuration.

If the capacitor (membrane in the example) were connected in parallel to the transfer pipe, it would absorb and smooth out small changes in pressure. This is called a decoupling capacitor configuration.

why do you need an AC anlogy to date your brother?

💀 @Larziskingful 

Thank you.

And reluctance, astonishments, and perplexems.

please!

Glad you enjoyed the video and that it helped you understand the concepts! 🙏

Your lectures have the ability to make anyone understand engineering

This was wonderful, thank you - best use of water analogies I've seen yet!

The AI voice is so hard to listen to

This was the best video I‘ve seen when it comes to explaining the terminology. Thanks for making them!

This is the best analogy I've seen for inductance and capacitance.

Thank you so much, I dindnt get it with any other video until I saw this one

I am an old soul, reincarnated 6229 times. I must say this is the best video I have seen on this topic since 2337 BC

I have never seen as clear as this explanation.thank you bro.

6:10 it is important to realize that the current in the circuit does not change. If water flows with (for example) 1 litre/minute through the narrow socket, then it also flows at 1 litre/minute in the wider tubes. It just moves faster through the narrow socket. Same in an electrical circuit; if you introduce a resistor, the flow of electrons (the "current") is the same everywhere in the (serial) circuit, including inside the resistor.

Brilliant way of teaching basics. Thank you so much.

This is genuinely helpful for me in learning electronics, salute to you for giving us these great illustrations

This is a greatbway to explain this .... awesome job

The term constant current was used in the early days of electricity, it is much better the the term direct current . It actually describes what’s going on .

The best primer to begin with. Excellent!

For someone that genuinely never understood electrical engineering as a whole honestly not even 1% of it ...Thought it was above my capabilities.
Thank you, for sure a new sub!

Wow this is by far most the best I have seen so far. Sending to my kid 👦 right now!!

Best video with water force examples

The best video on this issue

Excellent description of the topics with easy to understand explanations accompanied by clear diagrams.

one of the few comprehensive tutorial i ever come across. Thank you God bless you for this comprehensive analogy.

Was the narration changed since this was posted? I thought the voice was very easy to understand, unlike some videos I’ve watched.

The ai is a bit too flat and harsh but not unbearable. It is actually explained very clearly and intuitively. The voice is just a bit too harsh. Prof Mad’s vid is great.

It's like a Reddit tiktok
Just more serious

Reminds me of Troy McClure ... Iykyk

Let's hear yours

Ai will improve and sound better. Probably it has already sound better than you 😂

And cringy

Better than Indian accent

Agree. It seems pissed-off for some reasons and the EQ of its voice is aggressive. So even if the content is clearer, It's intimidating and not inviting to learn.

I like AI voice......!!
It's strong & clear......🎉🎉🎉

I'll take a 55-year-old Indian professor or even a 20-year-old American undergraduate over this. AI voices can't emphasize terms and often get pronunciation incorrect.

​ @baltakatei why not undergraduate indian

Content is amazing

Prof Mad should write the script before AI pronounced it. Here, the writing process is essential. Prof Mad is writing every words to make sure that the content is clearly understood by the viewer. I think this method is more precise than direct speaking.

I love ai voice... It's speaking straight to each topic

 @dazai_osamu777 the content is speaking directly to the content and not the AI bot.

Thank you.

I agree, was waiting to see how voltage/current lag would be shown with water, and the water wheel was perfect.  There you can see without words how it works. Which has me thinking maybe the best explanations are ones that just boild everything down to untiuve bits, idealy without words, after all everything we're talking about is phsyical and we should be able to show what we're talking about with some sort of analogous action.  I would love to see more mathematical relationships shown with action.    I guess graphs are the closest thing but they're not intutive either, having to process mentally whats going on with a curve. Like a sine wave is circular motion through time but the graph doesnt make that obivouse.  But say something like a gradient, you can see right away which parts are heavily concentrated which ones arent,  its obviouse, a 2d graph you need to use a legend to figure out which was is up even.

The best way I remembered reactance from inductors and capacitance is ELI the ICE man. E for voltage, L for inductor, I for current, meaning voltage leads current in an inductance and I for current, C for capacitor, E for voltage, meaning Current leads voltage in a capacitor.

😂😂😂😂

Nah man you forgot it's 7540 times

I agree. Also, if the voltage is analogous to force, which in water flow is due to pressure, then the introduction of a resistor in a circuit should affect the voltage and not the current.

hello, what are you saying is that as long as the Force is the same in both cases, (case 1 pipe having same diameter, case 2 pipe narrows and then comes back at same diameter ) the flow of water would be the same? "Bernoulli's principle states that an increase in the speed of a fluid occurs simultaneously with a decrease in pressure or a decrease in the fluid's potential energy. The principle is named after Daniel Bernoulli, a swiss mathemetician, who published it in 1738 in his book Hydrodynamics."

Depends on whether voltage or current is constant.

Resistor converts some current to heat, so no.

Thank you for the suggestion.

In roumanian we call it continous current
But it is often seen as DC when decades ago it was CC

Actually it is a bad idea. Because we talk about constant current supplies and constant voltage supplies.

DC is the correct and better term.  DC indicates the current flows in one direction, it does not have to be a steady current to be DC.

Constant current means the current is steady and does not change.

 @deang5622  direct doesn't mean either of them anyway
Maybe unidirectional or something else
Direct doesn't point to it being constant or flowing in one direction

 @deang5622  while you are right because we can have changes in duty cycle for PWM and it can have 0 at times everyone understood anyway what it meant and in my country everyone that knows about still understands it

Wow, thank you!

By far the best explanation of this topic I've ever seen, in terms of clarity, simplicity and completeness.

Best explanation I've seen so far. Thank you.

Finally a video I understand bless you brother

This is probably the most straight forward, concise and precise explanation of the topic. Amazing pedagogical material.

It is a mystery you revealed it and nailed it

Best channel ever in youtube, keep going please !

The best explanation I've ever seen. Thank you.

thank you for the very clear and intelligent explanation that I just watched

عالی بود، ممنون پروفسور

One of the best video I've ever seen.

Only now I understood direct vs alternate current? Instant subscriber  🙂

Explanation and depth of the subject is excellent.

I can't believe the only good and best video on this topic is a AI voice video.

great analogy with the water pump

Ohh Im diggin this, thanks a lot Prof!

Unbelievable, this was simple and plain to understand. Thanks alot

Very good animation and explanation. This video helps students to understand these concepts easily. Well done.

Very clear exposition, among so many contents useless to the dissemination of knowledge, here is something really well explained. Thank you very much

Best video on the topic hands down thanks

Thank you very much !

Thank you all for 1.8 k subscribers 🙏🙏

Resistance, Reactance , impedance ESR, V-loss and leakage. So many ways to test a Cap.

Wonderful explanation, the first time I started to understand impedance

this is the best one to explian

the best explanation I have ever seen

wow....in a very simple way ..u cleared all d complications regarding... electric parameters

Excellent Explanation Sir. It is one of the simplest explanation. I never seen such a good explanation

'ELI the ICE man' is how I remember it from 40+ years ago

😎 It's a truly excellent video. It is both instructive and fascinating. I deeply appreciate the time and effort invested in its production.

Super!!🤪👍Ever I encounter so decent, well developed and made content - straight to the point and easy to understand.  Prof please keep on!!!

This is perfect! I needed a refresher and you just summarized the last three chapters of my first semester so well. Saved me several hours :D

Nice presentation.

Very Understandable

The best explanation ever by using mechanical concepts. Great job!

Clearly explained through video and simulation.  This video should be shown in every basic electronic classes.

Well put and illustrated.  Well done.

For a person like me, who struggles with anything physics, this is by far the best explanation on the Internet available 💪💪

That's a frigging good explanation

Great video! Had not seen the membrane analogy before.

Really great explanation... thank you

Thanks for the positive feedback! 😊

Thanks for the positive feedback! 😊

Thank you for your clear and precise explanation

Brilliant explanation! Loads of thanks!:D

Fantastic Explanation about basic of electricity

Absolutely phenomenal with the explanations. Thank you Prof Mad for this

Excellent explanation, it's so simple and practical that even intelligent kids can understand these concepts 👏👏👏

Your content is extremely valuable to me. Excellent presentations.     👍 Artie

As a newbie to electronics as a hobby I am gaining so much  knowledge  and understanding on various topics I have watched. Thank you

As a 1st year ham radio operator I wish my study materials had explained these terms as well as you did. Now it all makes sense.

Very Helpful. Thank you !

This is the best video about this topic.

Thank you very much Prof MAD, this helped me a lot.

most valuable videos, thanks.

Prof MAD is not joking!

This is absolutely awsome. Keep it up!

Thanks for clearing the concepts.

Great comparisons, ones that the average electronics tinkerer can understand.

Awesome explanation!

thanks so much! Im a first year engineering student and this helped me a lot, God bless!!

Great video!!! Thanks for posting 👍

I'm new to electronics, and some of the concepts are so hard to grasp. This is by far the best video I've seen, everything is SUPER easy to understand  and extremely inspiring!

By far the best video in this topic I have seen in 20 years. Much helpful and appreciate.:goat-turquoise-white-horns:

In Navy electronics school, we learned about ELI the ICE man: 

voltage (E), in an inductive circuit (L), leads current (I) 
current (I), in a capacitive circuit (C), leads voltage (E)

Excellent!

This video beats my lecturer in university.

What a great explanation of these very important terms of Electrical technology I have never seen and read before. Great 👍👍👍👍👍👍👍

wow this video gave me very good understanding

Where were you .very simple and good video on electron flow

thanks i needed this

Best explanation ever. More success

Prof MAD You Are The Boss Of All Explainers In Universe ❤

Thank you so much 🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉

Your videos are defenitely valuable, thank you for your efforts

Top notch explanation ! Never before Never After. Thank you! 🙏❤

The elastic membrane analogy for a capacitor in an electrical circuit is genius.  In most circuits it is hard to visualize that no current is actually flowing thru the cap, but there is still an energy exchange.

Thank you! I thought I would never understand this, but now i do!

Brilliant presentation and explanation.

excellent video!! been a student of electrical for too long. This is great explanation.

Very well explained Prof. Thank you.

One of the best explanation with animation unique video.
Thank you!

Excellent 👏
I am from El Salvador and I love theses  videos 😉

Thanks for the kind words!

Yep, "BEEp" school 👌

Thank you! Glad you found the video helpful! 😊

Great!

Good analogy, please make a video explaining the Smith chart!

Amazing, I'm speechless

GREAT JOB YOU ARE A GREAT TEACHER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Great explanation

excellent video with great analogies.

Thanks for the explanation. It really clarifies things.

Really an excellent explanation for easy understanding. Salute.❤❤❤

Bravo. Great teaching presentation.

Such an awesome explanation!👍

Well that hit different.

Absolutely brilliant analogy.

Nice and understandable explanation  thank u sir

I finally understand.  Thank You.

Excellent 👌. Thanks 🙏.

Very nice explanation... tks

Thank you, great and easy explanation !!!

best explanation ever, thank you so much

Thank you for your detailing

Best video I ever have seen

Good material and I like your narrator’s voice very Paul Frees like.

Happy to help! 👍

well   nicely put  mr.  Tuvok

Amazing explanation indeed ! I have always been wondering what creates the lag and the lead. Now my questions are answered . Thank you!

Very good explanation and presentation.

amazing thx. i did very bad for my midterm. i got like 22/50 now i will try my best to perfect the rest of it. thanks

Very well explained, thank you

Very clear. Thank you!!!

Well summarized 😊

That was MAD

Excellent explanation! Well done!

thanks, It was so useful video for me. 🙏

Great explanation. Subscribed. Thank you!

Best explanation about impedance that I ever saw! Thank you!

Thank you very much for your very good explanation

Excellent explanation 👌🏻

Excellent job!!! 👍👍👍

Fantastic, thank you very much.

Very clear explanations .

Awesome. Thank you. Very clear

Nice Explanation on youtube 🎉

EXCELLENT !

You're very welcome!

Very nice explanation.Now I can understand in depth their behaviour.Thanks a lot.

Literally the best 🫂

This is an excellent video

Thank u so much. Very useful one

Nice video, keep it up, thank you :)

🎉🎉👋👏👏well though and straight to the point...

Thabks alot😂

College needs you ❤

Excellent explanation sir

THANK YOU SO MUCH MAN

Good very helpfull   kep formullae with concept

Amazing video..thanks a lot !  from Morocco.

Fantastic job man 🙏

Thanks alot you are a great trainer

Narration sounds so much like RC Bray’s audiobook narration it made me jump in class. 

Not sure if it’s AI or not but I seriously thought it was him reading it.

thank you very much for enlighting us

very good strategies and notable relation with the variables using the graphs. excellent.

Greatest explanation I have ever seen

Very expressive!
I learned a lot

Nice vid, great explanations, thank you. 🙏 ❤

Very good explanation. !

great video! this is exemplary!

Thanks for this video.❤

what a great lecture

Well done!

That is clear thank you 👍

You overlooked the initial transient behavior of the DC circuits involving inductors and capacitors, where the current changes over time before settling to a steady-state value.

Thank you for a very good video

Excellent job description is fantastic ❤❤❤❤❤

it is the best explanation i have ever seen 😶

Very well explained and it is very valuable to me thank you sir❤❤❤

Resistance,impedance and reactance (R, Z and X) are all measured in the unit of Ohm. Thanks a lot for this video

Fantastic!

Excellent video !

Grate effort and awesome explanation

Wow. Just in time... this is maybe a sign from the universe that it wanted me to succeed. This video wad uploaded exacrly in my time of need... thank you

Very good explanation

Thanks finally my doubt is clear ❤❤❤

Best video explaining this. Thanks so much

Very good explanation

I subscribe you, best channel on YouTube

Wonderful!

You're very welcome!

Excellent video! 🎉😊

Excellent explanation. thank you

solid explanation

The explanation was good.

Perfect explanation

Awesome video. Thanks.

You the man!

lourd la vidéo g bien tout compris :)

BEST VIDEO EVER

Simply beautiful. congrats.

Thanks men I learn lot

As engineer to truly understand some things we must concluded it or verses it all it types. Sir u concluded this topic so well. U must be are professor.

Absolutely brilliant explainer! Thanks

Great explanation

Very well explained

Excelent explanation. best of similar vídeos

Perfect, thanks for grate job.

Very clear video

Sir ur great and nice explanation.

Not born yet, but this is the best explanation on electronics ive seen. Thank you.

Thanks for the kind words! 😊

Thanks, glad you found it helpful!

Thank you so much.

Good analogy.

thank u Very Much, it's very useful

THANK YOU. reading my hvac electricity and controls and having little visuals was making me crazy. IMEDATLY UNDERSTOOD with this video...... Makes me sad my book for school costed 150

Salute to you man

thAt was BRILKIANTJ !!!

Honestly 1000s of hours in my engineering career have been spent before I watch this video and intuitively understand the physics of electrical systems.

Respected:
Pranam Excellent 
Regards

Really great explanation ❤

Very good video.

Excellent explanation❤

Wow... wonderful

thanks so much from kenya

Thankyou .From srilanka 😊

Muchisimas gracias amigazo!

I wish I could have seen this video 50 years ago when I was taking EE 101.  I could understand  how the magnetic fields in inductors could create inertia to resist the change in current flow vs voltage, but I could never visualize a physical system that would be comparable to a capacitor where flow would lead the force driving flow.  Congratulations for explaining one.

clear explanation tnx

thank you Prof MAD    . . .brilliant explaination . .  mabuhay !!! . . .    jun mozo, davao city - philippines

Best video ever

so valuable!!!

Nice explanation

Great Video

Mind blowing.

good explanation!

Hello professor, I just stumbled upon this video (while trying to find more information to trouble-shoot the compressor issue in my mini-fridge) and found your explanation awesome!. You are a good man!. Ashok

Very good for study

This is absolutely great explanation.

dam dude..that was n awesome video..  thanks much appreciated  im deff subbing

Thank you!

Wish we had such videos in college

Thank you!

What a video❤

Thank you, thank you, thank you!! I needed this comparative visual so much. I was completely hung up on capacitive reactance until I watch the section on the elastic membrane. That's exactly what I needed to see to fit the pieces together in my head. Thank you so much

THANK YOUUU !!

god bless you!

I really love this channal

Excellent from Egypt

Very good vedeo to understand  behaviour of resistance capacitance and inductanc. Best vedeo so far in this subject, I have come across .

great video

Good explanation

Glad you liked it

I'm so glad!

I appreciate the kind words and glad you enjoyed the video! 😊

You are genius man 2:38

Excellent.

Vielen Dank

Absolutely top-notch material!!  Simple, clear, memorable.  Thank you!  With content like this, Prof MAD will grow like MAD!  Wait for it....

Best analogy

Thank you very much 
Great

BRAVO! #1

This is superb - beautifully clear.  Thank you so much!

Thanks ❤

Thanks a lot.

In water flow example , Force(Voltage) of water is varying but in DC, Voltage is constant

This is very helpfull

Amazing ! thanks for this very intuitive explanation !

Muy buena explicación !!

Nice visualizations. It should be noted that reactance also causes a reduction in current magnitude not just a phase shift. Although a combination of inductance and capacitance cancels each other to some degree.

This video is useful

best explanation

it seems like the membrane in the capacitive reactance example is like an electron that gets shoved when the current reverses.

Perfection.

Thank you sir

Much appreciated!

Glad you enjoyed it!

You're most welcome!

This video is certainly the best I have ever seen on this subject.

I too devised this capacitor model of a membrane in a chamber many years ago and never seen anybody else using it before.

I think that the only point you could improve is explaining that the paradoxical behavior of the current (or water) flowing ahead of the voltage (or pressure) being applied is due to the voltage stored inside the capacitor (or the elastic force of the stretched membrane). Of course that that does not work for the very first cycle.

An excellent demonstration you are a good teacher thank you so much

Excellent.

Stunning.

Sir Excellent

When the current doesn't follow the voltage fluctuation probably there's anti current in their merge. Tickle. Thanks for the how they work lecture.

Excellent 👌

superb sir

Amazing!

Really good explanation of different types of impedance. Thank you.

I love humanity ❤

ELI the ICE man, voltage leads in an inductive circuit, current in a capacitive one. I considered capacitors like a hill , what you pushed up was anxious to roll back at you.

Thank you...

Excellent....

Excellent presentation.  I already knew this, but have struggled to explain to others!  No more……….thanks.

Beautifiul  !!🙏

Ser humano é mau. Não tenho dúvida  nenhuma disso.

GREAT  !! ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

Thank you

Thank you

Glad it was helpful!

Thank you!

Glad you liked it!

You are welcome!

Thanks for this. Very useful and helpful.

Great great great explanation. Thanks a lot

good job prof

Very good

I was gonna subscribe but i noticed that i already am. Bc i watched you before! Great video!!!

Thanks to much

This is a great explanation - thank you for putting this together!

I wish these types of video clips were available in youtube  in 1999 2000 so i could understand better electronic theories.  Text books were harder to understand..  I was a dumb EE student back in the days :)

Excellent

Thanks 🙏👍💯😊

Thanks ❤ sir

The clearest analogy of inductive and capacitative reactance that I've seen in the past 60 years. Thanks! DV5OHM

This video is really good. I especially liked the inductance explanation. Though I found the capacitance explanation to be a bit hard to wrap around my head.

really great video - better explanations than at my university!

Awesome.

Love for you

That was fun

thank you

Muito bem explicado, depois voltarei a ver copiando a tradução e observando os desenhos. Obrigado.

Very nice .. ❤

Glad it was helpful!

You are welcome!

Awesome!

Glad you enjoyed it!

Wow, thanks!

Glad you think so!

The great idea🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉

ELI the ICE man 😊

A dule probe OSCILOSCOPE with a current detection probe can show how capsistors and inductors changing the current time out of sink to the voltage perfectly..

Best I've seen yet. I'd just suggest something a little different for the water analogy for capacitive reactance. I suggest a balloon instead of a diaphragm.  The diaphragm analogy has to displace fluid on both sides immediately when it moves which doesn't suggest shift in current curve

good video

Absolutely amazing vid! Thanks for the info!

ANOTHER GREAT VIDEO!!!
I would have done only one thing a little differently....for the water wheel analogy of inductive reactance, I would have put a massive flywheel on the waterwheel.
THANKS MUCH!!!
--dalE

taught current flows from negative to positive

perfect...👏

The analogy to water is useful and with water flow the constriction causes a low pressure at the constriction and a velocity increase hence a friction increase (and energy dissipation) at the constriction.Due to the conservation of energy equilibrium equation increase of one will cause a decrease of the other factor.

Superb vedio

I always find it funny how water + electricity = bad but water + electricity = great analogy

Well done, great lesson. And you have a nice voice.

Wonderful

ELI the ICE man

Der Blindwiderstand (auch Reaktanz) ist eine Größe der Elektrotechnik, welche einen sinusförmigen Wechselstrom durch Aufbau einer sinusförmigen Wechselspannung begrenzt und eine zeitliche Phasenverschiebung zwischen Spannung und Stromstärke verursacht.

Der Blindwiderstand (auch Reaktanz) ist eine Größe der Elektrotechnik, welche einen sinusförmigen Wechselstrom durch Aufbau einer sinusförmigen Wechselspannung begrenzt und eine zeitliche Phasenverschiebung zwischen Spannung und Stromstärke verursacht.

Amazing work! The level of detail in your animations is incredible. Could you share what software you used to create such powerful visuals?

Que vídeo maravilhoso

helpful❤👍👍

Glad you enjoyed it!

Thank you! 😃

Very best ❤

Thank u

One easy thing I noticed to remember that reactance generally only applies to AC is that reACtance has AC in it!

Thank you sir ❤
You are genius, you made it easy to understand. There is difference between to know and understand.

just put icon for a subscribe i will do it ,
i can't imagine how this video is astromnical.
i really rescpet this 
i have never seen like this explain 
My mind is at a standstill because of the beauty of this video.
how my study in college was too hard to understand because of doctors can't explain like that,
i don't blame them you are really special guy

ELI the ICE man comes home🤣

Excellent way of teaching. 👍

superb

Amazing explination helped me alot in my learning journy TY

I am 63 this video reminds me again.thanks

Usefull

excellent video. makes much more sense

I am a quantum fluctuation energy from the year 2874 I will form some atoms to be used in embryonic cells ; anyway I tunnelled back through a warm hole, and I can say this is still the best explanation in future.

amazing

I really admire the reach of this channel! 
I’ve also been putting a lot of effort into my own RF/Wireless videos, sharing free tips and insights from 37+ years of experience. 
So far I’ve only reached about 300+ subscribers, and I’d love to share my knowledge with more people. Any advice from Prof MAD and anyone on how to better reach and engage the community would mean a lot.

Fancy things are so different in electronics, can't be explained with such examples,

Gread videos.

Great explanation!!

Sir, you explained very well.

Thank you po

It's my pleasure

Thank you! 😃

Glad it helped!

Glad you enjoyed it

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks for the kind words, I wish you the best with your channel! 😊

Glad you liked the explanation! 👍

Thanks

fabulous

Great job dear....you must have spent considerable time in creating this very good lecture

Dear Sir, I noted that you use conventional current flow. I, too, use conventional flow, but some of my professors would give us both a zero for in actuality current flows in the opposite direction. Notwithstanding, I spent 50 years in industrial electronics and conventional flow has never let me down, it is much easier to comprehend, even though it is wrong.😂 you must have been trained by Malveno. Me Too, I think that he is the best author to ever come on the scene.

Excellent explanation and smart flow of events, which made it easier to understand. Great work. Keep it up 💯. 
Can you please tell what software do you use to generate this text to speech audio?

I am n electronic engineer, I know these terms but this is the Best analogy I have seen. I have saved this video I will share this video with my twin boys once they start learning electricity..

Thankអរគុណ

Wowwwww you are so cool, thanks so much, is great explanation.

Bizaare

WTF I AM STUDYING TILL NOW!!!!

seriously, the best explanation of impedance. thank you so much

Epic

Anyone else hear adam schiff? Maybe its just me but i swear it sounds just like adam schiff.

4:22 I think capacitive reactance lags and inductive reactance leads is correct 😂😢😢 even your graphs say so but I was wrong

That's Enzymes effect and Enzymes deactivator effect of Temperature change and P.H, modulate.

Great analogy using water to demonstrate. BTW these three properties align with my three wives.

Brilliant explanation

Excellent !

Bery nice

저는 한국인인데 이 주제에 대하여 확실한 도움을 받았습니다. 감사합니다. 지구상의 많은 사람들에게도 많은 도움이 되겠네요 
구독신청했습니다.  앞으로도 좋은 내용 많이 올려주세요

Would have been nice to close with the explanation of recurring tems like "high impedance," "low impedance," and "impedance matching "; which you'll often hear about: i suggest you Google those for a good closing thought on these important concepts.

yeah. Thats correct.

Glad it's helpful for you and your kids!

Glad it was helpful!

Glad you think so!

Glad you enjoyed the video! 😊

Thank you.

Best video ever in this topic! Great analogy! And a doubt,  when we connect a capacitor to a DC voltage source, do we have initial current and then it decreases to zero, while the voltage remains constant?

Like the content, can’t take the voice.

Good

Very very useful video for me

Ahhhh, the old days: when we used to have to go out in the sub and reset those regulators that were on 16 buck!😂

Greate

❤ great ❤ 2:13

good

Great video.❤❤❤❤❤❤

I am preparing of electrical engineering and I am nat clear about electrical term so I request from you please provide electrical term so that I could clear about that

Your video is very good, I would like to ask, you are using what tools animation

Nice explained amazing video 💕💜

so superb!!

Exellent. Can you explain how adding a resistor counter impedance? For example adding a 1k ressistor to hulda clark zapper zeroes the human body impedance.

Nice video voice ND contents. What are the applications of these 4 terms R.I, R.C, and impedance

"ELI the ICE man".

Nice video overall. However, the membrane scene regarding capacitor reactance ...... I had a hard time relating that to the voltage lagging the current.

This is a great video. The only thing that I think may be helpful (for noobies at least) is mentioning at the start the Conventional Current and Electron Flow are the inverse of each other.

Thank you so much. That was fascinating 😀. I have an electronics lab in my apartment. I actually found a school that still teaches electronics. I'm going to start in December online. Right now I've been teaching myself from books I got from Amazon with experiments.😊

GOAT

Thanks a lot

Thank you 🤗

Thank you so much 🙂

Thank you! Cheers!

Sounds great!

For anyone interested, a hose provides a  great example of how high frequency systems work.  The hose stores pressure locally along its length by elastic expansion.  The water stores kinetic energy of water flow.  So in a 50 ohm hose, the ratio of capacitance (hose stretching) to cross section of flow (kinetic energy) resolves to 50.  If a hose has no air, and the end is plugged, water will flow through the pipe with a resistance equal to 50 because of the ratio.  When the water hits the end, the pressure increases back along the tube as a wave propagating at the speed of sound in water (or as speed of electrons in a conductor).  When the pulse hits the spigot again, the flow stops (with slight repeated reflections that die away).  This is what happens in a transmission or insulated cable and in a hose it’s visible and you can feel the reflected pulse.

My favorite is Reluctance: "Aw do I really have to pass this current? Oh well, OK but I won't be held responsible if there's an overload"

"Goddamn it, Gump! You're a goddamn genius! That's the most outstanding answer I've ever heard! You must have a goddamn IQ of 160! You are goddamn gifted, Private Gump!"

Applies to you :D

Never forget the Alamo.

I love the video but, as far as I know capacitors introduce a delay in current over voltage and inductors introduce the "leading current change" assigned to capacitive reactance.
Cheers.

So primitive that it’s up to date.

Lol, 1 month of school/college classes not required if someone shows this one video and does the maths alongside it.

I am 511 years old. I have never seen  like the explain in my life 😖😖

Resistance is the zeroth order reaction. Reactance is the first order derivative, in which an inductor opposes change in current with instantaneous change in voltage, and the capacitor resists change in voltage with instantaneous change in current. In brief, resistance is response to a constant. Reactance is a response change. Combining both reactive effects plus resistance, the sum is called impedance.

Convenient i had a vfd training or forgot anything to do with impedence from college

this behaviour closely mirror like capacitors in analogy with electricity

well done.

Very good and nice 👍

Very nice explanation but  a little doubt in inductor or capacitor circuit V&I graph, there should be reduce in current due to reactances.

Your explanation is great .wich software used  for making this type of animation video.

100%🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟

Good mechanical presentation.
But where is the explanation on magnetic field impedance?

I have Been leaning english for years, and when saw this video for the first time i hesitate, because i was asking my self if it would be possible for me as  an English learner to understand the context. But i was so impressed, you helped a lot about understanding this concept. Thank you very much.....

thanks

❤

The hose stretching is equivalent to capacitance per foot and the flow is equivalent to inductance per foot.

...and you even managed to write "impedance" correctly!

Thanks for watching!

Glad you enjoyed it! 👍

That's so awesome to hear! I'm glad you found it helpful.

 @Profmad  me too and i wish you all the best dear teacher...

Great video animation, what software do you use for the animations?

Only problem I see is you have current flowing the wrong way.

Excellent

👍👍

nice analogy, but how do we explain the flyback voltage in inductive circuits?

Excellent

best

👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏

❤

@10:16 "appears" how the water flow can change without applying force. Without voltage difference, how the current is flowing so that it leads the voltage. I still need to grasp more I believe

So I think ideally we gonna use inductor and capacitor to make the circuit current close to DC behavior when it's operating in AC environment?

Please do complete electronics engineering videos

Just completed Physics 2, struggled a bit with intuitive visualization of the mechanics behind RLC current/voltage flow. Not any more.

Ja,das Bougerrot tut bei verschiedener Frequenz die veränderliche Impedanz des Speakers abrunden🐮😂😂😂🐒💖🗿😯😎Es rundet in derRegalbox gut an.

Legit

Water Flow does not decrease in a narrow section such as illustrated. Water velocity goes up and pressure down to maintain contenuity. Except for sonic flows ofc. Good analoge though

Can you explain me how patch antenna actually works?

Ampli 🔥 . Where I am from, they are called amplifiers.

I mastered digital concepts, but there is a great wall
in my brain that will not allow analog to be processed.
Something turns off and I just pass out.
No matter what, it is too late to modify my brain.
Now I fix small engines because...I can.
Thanks!
62 year old software engineer.

What if there was something called charged current. It was made to transfer a huge Spike of voltage all at once with some small spikes at first that can inform whatever receives the voltage of how to distribute the energy. So you just get it from one end to the other and it gets distributed through the system?

Thank you so much 😀

Thank you so much 😀

sure.

the voice sounds like it is coming from an actor reading a script

❤

cool

Very well done. Unfortunately, I still can't find the back of my hand. (Analogy-Know it like the back of your hand.)
The water analogy for electricity is suppose to be the best. It seems to be, from what I have seen, what everyone likes to use.

I know plumbing and very familiar with pressure, flow and regulators...but still have a major opened circuit in my grasping of inductance.

I was taught electron flow in high school and I wasn't aware there was another until years later. That was when I realized that most explanations used conventional flow when explaining circuits. This really screwed up my ability to further my understanding due to years of frustration which I had thought I was doing something wrong.
Why in the heck conventional flow is used when electrons flow the opposite way is beyond  my grasp.
I suppose it's because people just don't like to change...kind of like current in a AC circuit containing coils of wire.

...It's electron "hole" flow. I heard one video say.

Thanks for the video.

dear sir, Really great job, i want to ask your permission to copy this video in my local language if you will allow, please, thanks.

a component can impeed and hinder the electrons flow so tha a amount of current impedance can stop  the  current to flow the voltage fluctuations conterversly of synch with it thats    some components can delay the changes of curent according to voltage so that no always the sole to, decrease or increase with it. also some other component can  rush  the changes of curent according to voltage so that no always the sole to, decrease or increase with it   the second type entails  delayed changing the resistor diminish the  curent flow throught it

Impedance. With an “a”…

Electrons actually flow from negative side to positive side

Good video. Could you tell me what program do you use for the simulations, thanks. A tittle for your next video could be, capacitive reactance, inductive reactance and RESONANCE. God bless you ! Thanks.

🙏💐💐💐

I missed, why the inductor or capacitor would have this influence in the circuit to the current flow. Besides of that a very good analogy

eventhought  the force increased gradually into the pistion the wheel statr to move iniate and the water flow continue

I am a fan of your channel! please translate this video into Brazilian Portuguese!

But... Never mix water and electricity!
Good explanation. Does'nt voltage and current vary with the frequency?
And thats why three way speakers are difficult to make.
If you want to calculate, use ye goode olde LaPlace.

if abruptly the wheel coming to halte due to the friction with the pipe. witch behavior arises from the water wheel strive to maintain a constant rate  of water flow rate due to montenum

The electrons actually goes in the opposite direction, I can't stop thinking about that whenever I see a diagram showing the flow of "current"... 
Can you please make it so the current is the same direction as the electrons? 🥲
and also reach to that agreement with the rest of the world's scientists, equipment manufacturers, electronic engineers?
Thank you 🙃

There’s a pill now to treat Impedance.

The best video on Electrical behaviour I ever seen.

nice visuals, sadly a few errors in text shown

Dziękuję za wyjaśnienie. Ale Capacytancję-capacity reactance rozumiem za pomocą analizy kondensatora i ładunkow i napiecia  naterzenia i jego zmiany. Ten model z prezerwatywą w komorze okragłej mnie nie przekonuje.

Thanks for the kind words! I'll keep your suggestion in mind. 👍

Hi, thank for this electronic learning video. This is sure a big help.
I just want to ask..... Is ANSI and LUMEN is the same thing ?
If let say example... its mention an ANSI is 2000, then the LUMEN also wil be 2000 ?, both of it will be equal value always ?

Well done. A little over complicated, but well done nonetheless.

What is this AI voice from? I've been trying to find it.

the waterwhell  analogically seemes to the inductro oppose to the abrupt  the attemps to changes in water flow  current in electricity this behavior is an parallel of inductor in electricity this effects b ecome evidennt it called inductance reactance   reactance whos oppose of the change of current  can observed only in AC current

Can we check voltage across live capacitor when we apply DC voltage?

:washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands:

I've always read electrons flow from neg to pos. Hummm

Would the behavior of example No. 3 (capacitive reactance) change if we were to change the gas chamber from, say, a sphere to a cube?

are you familiar with load current delay in a high impedance coil ?

:hand-pink-waving::hand-pink-waving::hand-pink-waving::hand-pink-waving::hand-pink-waving:

I'm older than the sun with an IQ of 209456389 and have 4000 PhDs in every major there is and this video finally helped me understand what are resistance reactance impedance thank you

easier to understand is when you think it like IT IS. Voltage describes how much energy current has at any given point in time. Voltage is IN the current. When there's potential difference in energy, the flow is always from high to low, yes, electrons move from minus to positive but energy, like heat, always from higher to lower. Never think that voltage is a force that pushes electrons.

May I seek to know from what you said, that current is constant in a D.c circuit please.

Is it a rule for all digital circuits with ICs and passive components ??

Electron flow is opposite to what has been described as current flow in this video if you are wanting a more accurate idea and deeper way of understanding electrical circuitry operation

Actually this video must be compulsory to watch at electrical schools
Moshitoa 🇿🇦

There al resistances but the transient effect of reactive L or C complicated thi gs right,  I'm still struggling to see how a sync reaction, motor works

As a 1000 year old vampire this video made me stop drinking blood and instead make circuits

This line confused me in capacitor analogy "The water flow has to change direction before force changes"
Can anyone explain this to me?

What if the changing range of B is from 2V to 1V periodically, how do you call it?

At first, I react.
Next, I resist.
If all else fails, I impede.

Thank you.

What is the realation betwean  curent  and voltage?

I am a bit confused at the start of the video when using Va Vb. Isn't voltage the difference of potential ?

Why current B to A (+) and A to B (-)?

I have seen a new study that explains that electrons actually flow in the opposite direction as you explained, is that valid in your opinion?

😎

In a DC circuit, current flow is negative to positive.

12:00 "...the componet can changes the current..." 🤔 (Componet or component? — Changes or change?)
12:00 "...the component can change the current..." or  "...the component changes the current..." 👈

How to check, which instrument use

Thks again & I have a question;
   I'm sure you're familar the piezo components.
   Much like solar panels, ??Can piezo components be wired in series & paralleled to produce electricity? 
   If-so, why aren't they (ex: piezo panels under roads or as ocean wave barriers are almost free clean energy)
   Thank you

R R C then R L C then run energy in and out

What is 'impedence'? How is it different from impedance?

Excellent and bery easy method to understand this topic.
You are good man.
Plz tell me which software you use to simulate this vedio ?

Scientifically it's the current that create transition from sleep to act. What if the current concentrate to and fro. From the upper head to center head. Would that be, I feel good chadadadadada.

Which one is a Vector quantity ???

BeautifulIdeaToMakeTheAnalogyWithHidraulicSystems.

How come the current is negative in the beginning when the voltage is zero in the case with the inductor in the circuit?

What's up with the volume rising and falling?

The only criticism I have is that when discussing capacitive reactance, they mention “the water flow leads the force” and “the water flow must change before the force changes” - and this caused me confusion because obviously that’s impossible. What they should have said was “the water flow DIRECTION change” leads the force

since voltage is not consumable. current is cosumable, how much current is being consumed by component is called impedence.
high impedence components consumes very low current.
when it comes to "give" rather than "consume", high impedence component "provide" very less current.

if consumer component is high imped.  and giver component is low imped (means it will need high current to work).. that is impedence mismatch. and circuit wont work at all.

if giver component is low impedence and taker is high impedence then circuit may work because there is so much current available to consume but we need very low. but that is not maximum power transfer. because we taking a tiny part of current and skip utilizing lot of current. for ac circuits, this not consumed current reflects back to the source and create interference. which is also a problem.

You should be my prof, you should get that 150k salary!

I use Blender for the simulations.

I doubt that ot will turn on if ot is a 100 watt 120v bulb being supplied by a 100w 12v source.

Au lycée je n’ai jamais rien compris à ça

So.. inductive reactants seems to have momentum and capacitive reactance seems to have elasticity.. could it be thought of as a bunch of tiny magnetic balls that went sloshed from one side to the other in an inductor, they continue to move in the same direction for a while, whereas in a capacitor there's a wall and a gap and they build up on one side and then push back the opposite direction?

R C C needed to switch on and off

In 10:11 it seem incorrect analogy.
Just look at the start of plot! There is maximum level of water flow with zero force, how do you feel with that?

How about dc capasitor?

:thanksdoc:

GREAT content. A I voice is rubbish though

I've finished your video, but where is Impedance?

ELI the ICE man.     ELI  Voltage leads Current in an INDUCTIVE circuit.     ICE   Current leads Voltage in a CAPACITIVE circuit.     OLD Navy training......

we can plug resistance and reactance to real and imaginary numbers in maths. so the  Impedence, a funny complex number that disturb deeply our brain.

Direct current flows from negative to positive not positive to negative. You should know that....

What software did you use prof. MAD?

4:21 it seems graph 2 and 3 are reversed?

Impedance misspelt on the intro graphic  :-(

Demonstrations is excellent but the voice is not easy to follow

Can anyone tell me exactly how to get this narrator voice?

I was there the day my bestie, Mikey  Faraday, built the first electric motor and......oh, due to my age, I've forgot what I wanted to comment now. Bugger

Electrons flow from negative to positive

👏👏👏👏

Bravo

This question has made my 2 nights go sleepless. Someone please try to answer me.

I know to make the Law of Conservation of Energy hold, the increased emf in the secondary coil results in a decreased current.
BUT! This is where my question starts.
Why does the higher emf result in a lower current in the first place?

A higher voltage always results in a higher current, but here this rule gets violated just to hold the Law of Conservation of Energy.

Ai voice is much better than Indian accent 😅

AC electricity, especially 3 phase AC electricity, is definitely not your simple DC Voltage, Amperage, resistance Ohm's law electricity.  You're getting in deep water there with trigonometry, vector algebra, reactance, impedance, i or j rotators, calculus and much more.

Hello,
In reality, electrons flow from negative to positive in a DC circuit.

I'm fifth year  electromechanical engineering student and this is the first time i see such a beautiful example to understand how impedance works. Thank you sir .

good

I am an Indian who belong to poor neurons genes. I can understand Impedence now. Thanks to great google. I salute with infinity billon thanks. It may be very simple to 2024 students. My dob is 29.12.1972.😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍

How am I hearing this particular "AI" generated voice everywhere now?

The only error I see is the direction of electron flow... Its actually from negative to positive...

Why is this narrated as a true-crime drama?

As a man born in 53 BC this isn't the best explanation because you said it flows from + to  - 
💀

Granted, I am very new to electronics, but I don’t think it’s accurate to say that reactance doesn’t apply to DC.  It applies all the time when DC is turning on and off quickly in a signal, like PWM.   The term AC is used only when voltage crosses the zero line, positive and negative….  but DC circuits like computers deal with inductance and capacitance all the time.    

Of course, with a voltage divider in the right place, positive and negative is a relative thing….  So maybe the definition of alternating current is imperfect.    Changing voltage/ current is all that is needed.

People is wrong about alternating current.... Don't go in back... Vibrate... Open down faster.... They need to change about...🫵🧐

Let's break down the differences between resistance, reactance, and impedance:

Resistance (R):

Resistance is a property of electrical components, typically represented by the symbol 'R.'

It is associated with the opposition that a material or component offers to the flow of electric current.

Resistance is constant in purely resistive components like resistors and is measured in ohms (Ω).

It dissipates electrical energy in the form of heat.

Reactance (X):

Reactance is another property in electrical circuits, represented by the symbol 'X.'

It is specifically associated with components that store and release energy, like capacitors and inductors.

Reactance varies with frequency and is measured in ohms (Ω).

It doesn't dissipate energy but rather causes phase shifts in the current.

Impedance (Z):

Impedance is a comprehensive measure of the total opposition to the flow of alternating current (AC) in a circuit, represented by the symbol 'Z.'

Impedance takes into account both resistance and reactance and is also measured in ohms (Ω).

It accounts for the phase relationship between voltage and current in AC circuits.

Impedance is used extensively in AC circuit analysis and design.

In summary, resistance opposes current flow and is associated with purely resistive components. Reactance opposes changes in current and is associated with components like capacitors and inductors. Impedance is a combined measure of resistance and reactance and is crucial for analyzing AC circuits, as it accounts for both the magnitude and phase of the impedance in a circuit.

I can't understand why this video does not have millions of views, but I do why has some downvotes: bigots of pureness.
Liked, subscribed and belled.

In dc current, there is a flow of current to charge the capacitor if it was initially uncharged. And, even in an inductor which is connected across a dc source, it initially opposes the rise in current. The graphs shown in the video are not accurate

Kindly correct the wording. Current doesn't move from positive to negative but it moves from negative to positive because current is the flow of electrons from a region of higher concentration to a lower concentration

Please do real voice

I'm new in electronics want to do something. Perpetual motion, I'm looking for

I still coundnt understand inductive reactance

very

Thank you for sharing this.

For further information related to electrical engineering you can visit my channel too. It will be glad for me to share the information to seekers

Seconding the thank you for sharing this!  Both of you have the contributive, humble spirit that makes the world a better place!

I also don't understand why there aren't too much subscribers, but I do know for sure these subscriptions are more reliable than those of the majority of YouTubeStar-Virals.

Please Dr Mad, keep it up and thank you for this good job.

Thank you soo much.

how?

Ok

Há em português?

in spanish please! 🙏

Just a coil 100mH and a capacitor 100mF and pulse it and you have tesla Magnifying transformer. You have to know where to put the ground connection and at what time to pulse it but you can get immense power out

I"m student .

The membrane analogy seems inaccurate.  You'd need to show the flow causing the pistons to move, but the analogy shows the flow as caused by force on the pistons.

the capacitive reactance is not well explained in my opinion cause i don't see how it reflects on the voltage current chart

Nicely explained.  However, electrons flow from negative to positive, not positive to negative.

Im happy to say that i learned nothing 😊 i really progressed in this year at my college when it comes to usefull knowledge 
Great video though 💪💪💪

Most videos are AC. This one is DC .

the logic with the water wheel doesnt make sense . it alsmost lets you say , water is compressible causing a delay . or the water wheel has voids in it to fill up before it goes through .

You misspelled ‘Impedance’.

This may be confusing because some idiot thought the electron carries positive charge so electron flow is backwards from current flow.  To make up for this, current is called hole flow which only underlines how misleading it is since there are no positive charge carriers in wiring or solid circuits of any kind.

i am confused about the nozzle. wouldnt the flow stay the same by increasing flow velocity?

Radio director message, pride. To bow to whom, the priests who also bow to a grass feeder. Nevermind.

Thank you sir🙏can I have your contact details please

I am an Electrical Engineer, i would say that no one realy understands the reality of current and voltage , the just take observasions and put theories.

Akademi binaan @😢

I think this presentation misses to explain, how the measurements are done. For example it explains that a simple resistor in a dc circuit drops the current but not the voltage, but that is inaccurate. The voltage drops as well. If the wires are considered to have no resistance then the voltage is dropped completely after the resistor. This is not something that is clear to all viewers and therefore could lead to confusion. And therefore it would be important to explain how the measurements are done for each graph.

No comment.

Huh?  There still needs to be conservation of energy and such....

But he never said electron flow... Only current flow. It's subtle, but different.

That's great!

For an ideal nozzle, the ideal nozzle has no energy loss.  It simply trades pressure energy at the inlet of the nozzle, for kinetic energy at the outlet of the nozzle.  The nozzle in reverse is a diffuser, that would do exactly the opposite, and return the same pressure you started with, if it were an ideal diffuser.   The mass flow rate is the same at every point along the way, it is just redistributed.

An ideal nozzle/diffuser pair would have no affect on the relationship between flow rate and pressure difference, because all energy is ultimately conserved across it.  A real nozzle/diffuser pair, not so much.

For a real nozzle, there is friction that would accompany the process, and this is why a nozzle would affect the relationship between pressure difference and flow rate, analogous to a resistance.  There isn't an exact match to a hydraulic equivalent of Ohm's law, because the relationship is extremely non-linear.  We also don't have a closed-form solution, and designers of pipelines rely on extrapolating experimental results.

​ @carultch   SUPER appreciate the generosity and expertise of at least a couple deep questions you've kindly answered!  Thank you!

Resistance: No!. Reactance, boing! Capacitance, who cares? Life goes on... until the electrolyte dries up.

AC current flow is another concept that needs to be overhauled for general educational concepts.. At a traditional AC source voltage is generated from a rotor or coils moving through voids that close by stroke the fields of magnets or coils depending which way round the design of the machine... the so called push pull effect is down to a mirror imaging of the moving stroke...
Tighten a bolt on a part from one side clockwise and you do the same on the opposite side.. yet clearly they are in opposition to each other... the push pull AC is pushing all in one direction but has a flipping of sign values... like in quantum physics you have spin up and spin down.. right im off.. happy hunting everyone..

Is this... the same narrator as in those obnoxious tiktok clips...?

Sir your example does not match with capacitor.  Because in animation it look like wate or current leaving behind the pressure.  It's not true.

Any cbse class 12th students

You really could have just explained how capacitors and inductors work.

who is the narrator ?

I had always thought impedance (Z) was the AC equivalent of resistance (R) in DC circuits. But until now never understood why when I measured two ends of 50 ohm coax the multimeter shows 0 ohms. So if impedance (Z) = resistance (R) + inductive reactance (XL) + capacitive reactance (XC) and R=0, the 50 ohms represents the sum of XL + XC? I know there are formulas but how can XL and XC be measured?

No mention of phase angle for the impedance. Not good. Definitely not good.

How is negative voltage made and why does it say positive of i flip the leads of multimeter

Would have been so much better without the robot voice.

Everyone is a plumber. !

I am dumb ass I guess because I don't understand this. But I can wire houses, lights in vehicles.

AC circuit.

This may be good but lost my interest with the automated voice over.

The piston and wheel analogy is imperfect because you don't explain 'inertia' as it relates to energy storage and utilization, i.e., the concepts of potential and kinetic energy.  These oversimplified explanations of basic electrical physics make for confusion because erroneous understandings have to be overcome.  Don't get MAD, now. ;-)

I learned electronics the old fashioned way when current is illustrated as flowing from  Negative to Positive.    This new trend where current is being shown as flowing from Positive to negative is confusing to me.   It doesn't make any sense.   The whole thing is called ELECTRONics for a reason because it follows or manipulates the flow of electrons.

That's a negative on the AI voice I would imagine if this was also written by AI.

It was obvious to me years ago that most teachers and lecturers don't really understand the material they teach. And that's often the difference between a student passing and failing an exam. We need tear down the monoliths that have infested government and education, 50% of the workers add zero value. And 10% are malignant like Starmer and Richard Hermer.

Prof AI

To measure an isolated XL and XC, you'd need to measure its impedance across a broad sweep of the spectrum, and extrapolate what lumped inductance and lumped capacitance could cause it, from a model of the cable.  A typical cable assembly is modeled with resistance and inductance in series along its length, interrupted by cross-conductance and capacitance in parallel.  And a continuous repeating pattern like this, that looks like a ladder.   Inductance and resistance are the longitudinal rails of the ladder, while cross-conductance and capacitance are the rungs of the ladder.

What you'd get, is a Bode plot in the frequency domain, which shows the ratio of amplitudes, and phase shift at each frequency.  The XL will cause current to lag behind the voltage, and the XC will cause current to lead the voltage  Generally, at low frequencies, XC dominates, while at high frequencies, XL dominates.

Negative Voltage just means the EPE of a positive charge is less than what it would be, at the reference point.
Positive Voltage, means the EPE of a positive charge is greater than what it would be, at the reference point.
Electrons have an EPE that is opposite the voltage.
EPE = electric potential energy.  The energy that a charge has, by virtue of its position in space, relative to the reference location.

It is completely arbitrary where that reference point is.   There is no such thing as absolute voltage, since what ultimately matters is the difference in voltage between two points, and in which direction.  There are conventions for where to put your reference point.  In a practical application, you either put it at the ground that is electrically continuous with the dirt, or at the chassis ground on a device that isn't connected to the dirt.   Physicists consider zero voltage to be infinitely far away from the charges we are considering, but that isn't really practical.

Think of zero Volts as where ever you place your Voltmeter's black probe.   The Volt meter then measures the Voltage at the red probe, relative to the Voltage at the black probe.

What a Voltmeter is really measuring, is the integral of E dot dℓ, along a path through the leads.   E is the electric field (force per unit charge as a function of space), and dℓ is the little distance (length) along the path.  The dot is the dot product of the two vectors, multiplying them together, and accounting for how aligned they are at each point.   This adds up the cumulative work done on a test charge along the path of its leads, which does work on the internal components of the Voltmeter circuit.  The work done on the voltmeter circuit, tells you the voltage across its leads.  For a situation with no changing magnetic fields in the background (induction), the electric field is conservative, and voltage you measure only depends on the two locations, and is independent of path.

An analog voltmeter uses a spring-loaded needle, driven by an electromagnet.
Push the needle one direction against the spring, you get positive voltage.
Push the needle the other direction against the spring, you get a negative voltage.

So how much do you charge ? 😂

working on that.

By very nature and definition, all analogies are imperfect.  And all the best human knowledge and perceptions, to boot!  I still find Prof MAD's videos wonderfully helpful, though.

I mean, in electric circuits, electron number one at the front of a battery doesn't actually, individually travel down the wire around the circuit the way water molecule number one does.  Rather, it's energy moving through wave propagation.

well conventional current model is just something you have to accept as an EE. blame benjamin franklin

Sick and tired of the IG voice 🤦🏾‍♂️

AI - bye bye 👋

Positive charge is lack of electrons ,,, negative charge  is excess electrons ,,, current flows from negative to positive ... So many get this wrong ....

wait maybe im dumb but why would the electrons move from the positive end to the negative end? at 5:15

I cringe the instance I hear that voice. My reaction is to stop the clip and move on. I associate it with poor quality content (of which there’s loads).

Your formula for Impedance is wrong.  You can't add resistance to either reactance as they are 90 degree out of phase.  You must calculate the total reactance then vector chart the reactance to the resistance resulting in a hypotenuse which is the IMPEDANCE.

what ai is this?

ÕMĞ é PôWéŘ-PhÛľĽ Orrrsé-Strâylêan
😟😟😰😩😰😰😩😩😩😩😩😧😦😧😦😧😳😵😶😳

Aren’t there any humans left who can read a script and narrate?  I hear this AI voice probably 10 times a day on various channels. My guess is this was also scripted by AI.

This AI voice is irritating type

Judge says to the deceased..............Time served. Oh forgot oatmeal brain says you should have should him in the legs LMAO. She missed.

Subject is good.  But we’ve all come to loathe that AI voice!  Lose it.

Irritated by AI voice

Why does the narrator sound angry?

auto subs😊

AI voice is very bad

Please stop using AI voice it is very difficult to understand and couldn't concentrate on the video please try to explain with your own voice it'll be more beneficial for us to understand. I could say AI voice is irritating

Pleas talk and dont use a voice

The explanation for DC and AC is wrong. When current and voltage stay the same sign then it is dc. When the sign of voltage and current change then it is AC. A clock pulse on a computer is actually DC. This explanation implies that a clock pulse for a computer is AC.

AI slop

Not necessarily.  Charge is just a property of matter, that enables participation in electromagnetism. There exist plenty of negatively charged particles that have nothing to do with electrons.

Negative charge just means it has the same charge as an electron, and positive charge means it has the opposite charge as an electron.  For most matter familiar to you, it is a surplus of electrons that makes macroscopic objects negative, and a deficit of electrons that makes macroscopic objects positive, and a flow of electrons in most manmade circuits that makes for current.  But charge in general, doesn't have ot be this way.

Bottom line: be flexible with your understanding of current.  It might be the same way as charge flow, or it might be opposite charge flow.  You might also have a mixture of both charges flowing in opposite directions, and together they form a current.

 @carultch  Yeah , NOOOOO not where electricity is involved ...You are not mistaken you are wrong ...The particles you are describing live for microseconds at the very most , and aren't involved in electric circuits ...

I think he meant to say current.

He is referring to conventional current instead of electron current

He meant current

It doesn’t.  Current always flows negative to positive.  Unfortunately, a lot of electronics videos state it the other way.

?

Seems like the same voice used in many of the 'War in Ukraine' videos but it kind of works better with that subject matter.

Just can't listen to AI generated crap.

There is a mistake @1:00 , the electron have a negative polarity so it flows contrary as despicted.

Not Reactance not Impedance.
It is Inductance, Capacitance.

Good information but not accurate

This is good for understanding electrical engineering, but unfortunately your water flow analogy for resistance is wrong. A narrowing of the pipe with constant force on the inlet (i.e. constant pressure) will not decrease the flow rate. And actually it will increase the velocity of the water through the narrow part. It will decrease the pressure though. This is because of the continuity equation, which says flow rate in = flow rate out. And because water is incompressible.

Government polytechnic jalna 😂😂😂

Too many errors in this video saying things in DC are constant when they aren't.


You can have non constant voltages and currents in DC.

Looks like decent information, but I refuse to listen to AI voices!  Hire HUMANS!!!!!!!!!!!!  You're just helping it not need you either!

Great explanations.
I thought I had a question about the water wheel at 6:50 but after reviewing, seems sound.
The way I remember which does what with regards to current lagging or leading in Capacitive or Inductive reactance is:
If you have a circuit fed with a Resistor to a Capacitor to ground, the current in the Capacitor will initially be high as the voltage increases (It will initially be discharged and look like a short)....the current leads the voltage (Current being higher first)
If you have a circuit fed with a resistor to an Inductor to ground, the current in the Inductor will be low as it initially resists current flow but the voltage will be high, later, the current increases so the current lags the voltage. (Current being Low first)
Capacitance: Current Leads
Inductance: Current Lags
Hope this helps 😊
Hope I'm right...😏😂

I can't stand the AI voice over

most cringe voice on the internet

Grammar errors: At the twelve minute mark, the word "component" is misspelled and the word "can" is unnecessary.  (I am certified in TEFL.  You're welcome :)

I love the video, but i am tired of this AI voice.

Why are you using conventional current flow theory instead of the now accepted current flow of negative to positive? You're retarding the understanding of newbies. It may confuse them for years on where the electrons come from and go to. Negative charge is an abundance of electrons as electrons are negatively charged. Positive charge is the lack of electrons as the protons are positively charged. Scientists should have labelled that charge of an electron as positive instead of negative. But at the time. They believed that protons moved through wires and not electrons. That is why the schematic symbol for diodes is so screwed up. Think of the arrow like symbol as hitting a target and can't go any further. The arrow is stuck in the target.

It may have been 80 years sins NIKOLA TESLA left us but humans still do not know how to use a coil and capacitor NEVER put a resistor in a circle or it will always look power.

Get rid of the AI voice-overs and use a real human being.

mostly okay, but example with water - whooh, all well known physics - became a ass burnin men! please,  add sign, as water it's only for example, cause in real world, physics didn't allow repeat that !
Thank ou

Unfortunately I can't listen to this AI voice. This AI voice is the same one that says "This guy is a genius" because he puts his head in a cardboard box with a 2 litre bottle sticking out the top . Why? Idk but credibility is lost with this voice.

I’m a snooty but well mannered banker who’s been convicted of murdering my wife and her lover. There’s something familiar about the Narrator’s voice.

WTF no offence this video explains concepts in semester-length course...

There is no mistake. Electric current is defined as the flow of positive charge, not of electrons.

He has never talked about the electrons...

What word do you mean where you wrote "look"?  Lose?  Lock?  Please and thank you!

THIS VIDEO WAS PUT TOGETHER TO IMPRESS SHEEPLES.  SHEEPLES LOVE ANIMATIONS.
Total Hollywood garbage.
Aside from all the nonsense in the video which I have no desire to reveal, consider what is called "displacement current". Remember Maxwell?
 Then consider high frequency circuit, then consider variable frequency circuit.  
And by the way there is no piston A and piston B. There is only one piston for Petes'  sake.
I am done with this.

At running time 6:18 it is being explained that the nozzle decreases the water flow (keeping the pressure constant). Fluids when passing through constricting nozzles gain high velocity and experience a drop in pressure along side the walls of the nozzle - this is so that the mass flow rate remains constant (Bernoulli's principle). Overall the video is very good.

Stopped watching the moment i heard ai

If you worked in the field for a few years and still cannot understand even the simplest principles behind the basic passive components without some silly and barely working plumbing analogies, you either wasted your life while doing so or should change your profession as soon as possible! In any case, whatever is your domain, either an electrical engineer or a plumber, are you able to explain what resistance, reactange, and impedance are after seeing this video? I don't think so! 🤦‍♂

Why are you yelling at me? I don't know what I did wrong but I beg your forgiveness. Please don't hurt me.

Impedence? Is there ONE YouTube video without spelling and grammar mistakes?

English is not my language but I try to explain. The verse of the current is chosen once and for all, arbitrarily, and then, relatively to that verse, the current can be positive or negative. You cannot change verse and sign simultaneously because that is a nonsense, in my opinion.

The water analogy destroys the footage; sorry

Your currents are flowing the wrong way 😅

They are negatively charged electrons to the flow from the negative to the positive, not from the positive to the negative.

AI voice so annoying.

Why speak so slowly?

Oh Jeez, this is Conventional Current Flow theory (CCF); this guy is going around his elbow to get to his ass here...  Academia has been teaching this convoluted theory for over 100 years because they can not admit they were wrong in the first place.  Current flows from negative to positive - it is electrons that flow from negative to positive; Electron Flow theory (EF).  This guy knows EF is reality, but he does not want to teach Electronics to you that way - ask yourself why?  This guy is a Dumbstine Academe who wants you to think you need him to learn Electronics, and you don't.

Excellent sir! Clear and concise! Thanks for sharing.....

impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance impedance ! 

you dont even know how to spell...

😂 no electrons its one dielectric unit.

LMAO who is this AI voice I have heard it everywhere and has even infected the Electrical Engineering videos !

Remake this video with creators voice.

Didn't talk about Impedance

I don’t like this explanation, way to confuse and discourage amateurs.

Voltage doesn't flow.

What do you mean by verse?

Are you talking about the sign convention for charge and current?   That was a hold-over from pre-1900, prior to the discovery of the electron, when we didn't know which sign of charge was doing the moving.   Franklin determined there were opposite kinds of charge, and arbitrarily assigned the two kinds of charges as positive and negative, without the data to make a convention that made any sense for reality

 @carultch  No I mean simply that in oder to say that a current has a sign you have to fix a verse and relatively to that fixed verse the current can be positive or negative. So the verse never changes, instead changes the sign. There is no menaing in changing both sign and verse. On the other hand, if you don't (arbitrarly) fix a verse than the sign has no meaning.

It's a diagram that shows conventional current, in a pre-1900 understanding of these concepts.  The sign convention sticks around today, because of an "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" line of thinking, since it would be too much effort to overhaul the century of knowledge that was built on incomplete data.

If you had a circuit made of positive charge carriers like sodium ions, like in human nerve cells, conventional current could reflect reality.  Be flexible on your understanding of current, as it isn't necessarily electrons (even though it is electrons in manmade circuits).

​ @carultch   So knowledgeably and kindly said.  And your technical writing skills are tops!

Yes, it's all about conventions of reference.  Who knows, but maybe what we universally call the North Pole now was once referred to as the South Pole!  Conventions of reference are arbitrary and malleable.

Thank you for your feedback. We will try to improve.

It's an analogy, sir = imperfectly matching description, by nature and definition.  I and most viewers find the analogy helpful!

Is conventional flow really the only problem you have with this video? Seems you have some pretty limited understanding if that's all you found.

Glad you enjoyed it!

5:12 false the electricity always comes from negative to positive. 😂

1 Dielectric unit , which carry a negative charge, move from the negative terminal to the positive terminal of a power source

😂 electricity moves like a train on tracks not like water through a hose pipe 😂 is the signal in the radio

Thankyou for your feedback.

ALERT!    IMPEDENCE is NOT SPELLED CORRECTLY, so how can you trust this "teacher"?

CORRECT THE VIDEO TEXT   BEFORE TEACHING THE MASSES


Mr. Impedance

You could have at least put effort into using a unique AI voice. I find this painful to listen to.

Wrong

I stopped watching after a minute.
You do not know the definition of the term "voltage".

Any explanation of impedance without the use of complex numbers is a rubbish and poor explanation.

It is doing an injustice to the student.

