FREE Private Pilot study guide pdf!

Want all the Private Pilot concepts broken down with visual aids a few concise bullet points? This is what we have in our 100% FREE study guide pdf.

Simply enter your email at the following link and get instantly sent the download link: https://parttimepilot.com/free-ppl-study-guide/

Hello pilots! I'm a university student in an aeronautics course doing an assignment involving correcting and/or fleshing out explanations for lift as it is a complicated and even somewhat controversial topic in aeronautics. Part Time Pilot is obviously a great teacher from what I've seen, but I noticed a few key flaws in his verbal explanation for lift that are not expressed in the text on screen and I would like to give a little more insight into the reasons for lift.

Lift is in fact caused ONLY by the low pressure above and high pressure below, the change of direction does require an upward force be exerted and this force is manifested as pressure, but contributions 1 and 2 are part and parcel of contribution 3. Additionally, the reason for the low pressure above the airfoil is not really due to the blocking of dynamic pressure. The dynamic pressure is not the same as the pressure you are used to dealing with, it is somewhat abstract as Bernoulli's equation is simply an application of energy conservation which states energy cannot be created or destroyed. The dynamic pressure is simply the portion of the total pressure/energy of the air which is manifested as the air's velocity and the static pressure is the pressure we are used to and simply represents the portion of the total energy manifested as the pressure we know. The dynamic pressure of the air traveling on top of the airfoil actually increases which, since our total pressure must stay the same, means our static pressure must decrease, hence the lower pressure up top. The reason this fast flow and low pressure are established is because the air always wants to fly tangentially off the curve of the wing but this would draw air away from the wing creating a vacuum, this is why the pressure is lower and the higher atmospheric pressure pushes the air stream down which is why it sticks to the curve of the wing. The pressure and velocity of the air are codependent and influence each other constantly so a pressure drop does not then cause the air to speed up, the pressure drop corresponds with and happens at the same time as the air speeding up.

Just got my spot in the course!! Can’t wait to start!

Thank you

👏🏻👏🏻🙌🏻

Good break down of bernoulli/energy cons! The trick with lift is trying to explain it in simple terms that people who have no experience in aeronautics can understand. A few questions for you...

You say contributions 1 and 2 are part and parcel... meaning necessary part of the explanation? That is the definition. 

You mention that the air on top of the wing wants to fly tangentially off the curve of the wing and this is what creates the vacuum on top of the wing. Why does the air want to fly tangentially off the top of the wing but not the bottom? What is the difference between the bottom of the wing and top of the wing in this instance? If there was none, the bottom of the wing would also create a vacuum with your logic. So there must be a difference?

Can you explain to me how free stream air contacting the bottom of an airfoil with a positive angle of attack does not obey Newton's 3rd law?

Brynn Smith 🙏🏼

