Thank you for a clear answer at beginning of video and a simple to understand demonstration. Some other videos I found, went way over my head or didn't give the answer at beginning.

Love the simple explanation! Thank you sir!

Simple and precise ! Thank you .

Thank you for the explanation 👏🏾👏🏾

Indeed love your explanations so smooth

Thanks 🎉

Thank you for an interesting and down to earth presentation.

It would be interesting to see a high level overview of what makes an amplifier good in terms of components and a general idea of what the circuit board and parts do. But I’m sure that would be difficult to explain in a way that makes sense to our simple minds, LOL!

Excellent...👍🏼
Using XPA-3 & BasX A3 with my Denon AVR-X4700H & Polk Reserve R600 & R100 both Amp's are working perfectly fine & I'm Very much satisfied with the performance of both the Amp's. Wishing to upgrade my front stage with XPA HC-1's.
We Indians Love Emotiva products...👍🏼👌🏼

thank you!

Im very happy with my XPA DR2. Bad to the bone. Exactly what i was hoping for. Had it in the system for a couple months now. Very satisfied.

Thank you Billy Bob Thorton

Why do my speakers make a pop sound when my reciever  and amp power up at the same time

I'm confused on an issue not covered here.  I'm trying to improve my bedroom home theater a little at a time, given budget restraints.  I'd heard many differing on the subject of separating amps from processers,  Do amps in AVRs cause measurable interference to which the processing circuits are subject to?  Whatever the case, I bought a Tonewinner AD-8300PA and added it to my Denon X4700 and things SEEM to sound better.  I don't know if it's the extra power in the LCR modules or the separation of the AVR from the internal power supply.  What's correct??

Noise:  Chasing grounding issues drives me nuts.  I resorted to plugging everything into one 20a outlet. I'm hoping for the best.  At least the hum is gone.

s still a single channel preamp , where as my stereo amplifier is bi-amp ....
One octal preamp tube for bass response , in parallel with , two other 9 pin preamp tubes, for the treble response....

How important in your opinion is Damping Factor?

I can see you are using high quality camera, but there is a lot of noise from dark in the video, consider better lighting

Hey there, I have a Technics SU-Z1 STEREO INTEGRATED AMPLIFIER from 1980😅

And basically I wanna produce beats.
Do u think there is anyway to connect this old amplifier to my laptop? 
Because I’m new in all of this and it’s quit overwhelming if u don’t know what it all means…

I thought this was 'how an amplifier works

I’m glad you found it helpful!

You're welcome!

Thank you for your feedback!

We are happy you enjoyed the video!

Great to hear!

You're welcome!

Awesome! Thank you for your purchase.

you didn't tell us what amplifying the signal does. Thanks

Title: how does an amplifier work.
End of the video: I am NOT going to go into how amplifiers work, that's for another video.......🙄😑🤨

Video is titled "How Does An Amplifier Work"

and at the end of said video he says he's not going to explain how an amplifier works.

I wish Emotiva made a "real" amp. Focused too much on inexpensive. Would love to see what they could make no holds barred.

Hello all. I am glad to come across this video. I am hoping that someone on here can help me in some way by answering this question. In the structure of the loudspeaker, is it possible to divert the electrical impulses created in the voice coil by the vibration of the incoming sound waves from the cone, to an amplifier, and collect the output impulses from the amplifier for something else entirely, instead of using it to produce sound waves? I am asking this question because I am looking to amplify a different kind of wave than sound waves, and I think that I will need the voice coil part of the loudspeaker because it is sensitive to wave vibrations, and producing electrical impulses in the process is a feature that I find useful for my project. I would appreciate what ever input I can get on this. Thanks

Big question I have a Onkyo rz50 it is 120 watts to channels driven I understand the basic fundamentals however I do have a emotiva Bass X2 but if my Onkyo only puts out 120 watts even with my pre-outs connected to the amplifier and then the amplifier is connected to my SVS Tower speakers that I want them to get 200 Watts how can this be accomplished the basics of what I understand is you only get in or should I say you only get out what you put in.. please please help me understand and fix this situation to where I can get the most out of my amplification and setup thanks so much for your time in advance..

Thanks for the guide. With a title that says "How does an amp work," I was hoping to learn circuitry, but instead you answered the question "What does an amp do." Oh well, thanks anyway.

It makes the signal strong enough (higher current /Amps) to power/drive your speakers.

Anything can happen :)

I know this reply is a little late, but I'm interested. Do you want to capture soundwaves and convert them into electrical waves? Or do you want to use an amplifier to amplify different signals? Regardless which signal you're attempting to amplify, a sound amplifier should work. Sound amps like most type of digital signal amplifications mostly use transistors for the amplification process. You have one control/input wave (any electrical signal works so long as it's within the parameters of that transistor) which controls the frequency, and one output wave, which is the amplified signal. The input wave creates a variable resistance within the transistors, and the output wave is sent through this variable resistance, thus controlling it. The output wave can again be just about anything, so long as the transistor is rated for it. You could do multiple transistors in a row, but that could lead to signal degradation. Most amps have other types of controls, where you can modulate the frequency ranges (low/bass, mid, treble, or even more options in kHz) and signal input/output control. Hope this was of some help!

 @Kniesknees  hello, thanks for taking the time to write this reply. You sound very knowledgeable and experienced in this and I am happy that you took the time to write that detailed reply. Actually, what I am amplifying is gravity waves! I built what I call a "Gravicraft", which is a device that rides on gravitational waves, but in order to utilize the gravitational waves that it produces to create directional movements I need to amplify the waves and pulse it in a desired direction in order to produce a required movement or "propulsion". The loudspeaker works because the coils vibrate with the detection of waves impact. This is exactly what I need because gravity is simply wave vibrations, and amplifying the current produced will amplify the resultant gravity waves there produced as well. But thanks for confirming my thoughts, and hello from London-Ontario, Canada ☺

How many total channels are you running?

 @EmotivaAudioCorp  the point to my question is if is the speaker can handle 200 Watts I want to get 200 W to those speakers each however the bass X2 only delivers 160 w so without saying my Onkyo only puts out 120 watts 2 channels driven so no matter what amplifier I hooked to my pre-out whatever your output comes out to be whatever you put in to the amplifier you get in what you put out that's what I can't figure out how can I get 200 watts to that speaker if the amp can only 160 Arlette say I get a bigger amp they can actually give out 400 watts a channel still in the end I am only dealing with a Onkyo that can only produce 120 watts per Channel so if I hook it up via pre out to an amplifier that may can deliver 400 watts per Channel if you're only pumping in 120 how can I achieve any more power thanks in advance

