In case it is helpful, here are all my Control Theory videos in a single playlist https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxdnSsBqCrrF9KOQRB9ByfB0EUMwnLO9o.  Please let me know what you think in the comments.  You can support this channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or by clicking the 'THANKS' button underneath the video.  Thanks for watching!

Can you please upload videos on LQZ,LQG and LTR control techniques

Awesome. I haven't stayed awake through a 90+ minute lecture this easily in years. Great job

A single video gave me all the details to start with LQR. Thank you !!

You have practically taught LQR control in a memorable way. Thanks for sharing.

I felt incredibly stupid with my controls class but this video is making it make sense. Thank you!

AE511: It is neat to see a controls application where we can make use of results/equations derived from optimization, without having to perform the optimization for every problem.

Dear Chiris, I was frantically looking for a good channel to start studying control system and you are a god send. Thank you so much

I wish you would present all control lectures. You just explain what is exactly needed.

Thank you so much for this fantastic lecture on LQR.

I cant put in to  words how thankful i am.

first time i felt even slightly comfortable with LQR after many videos. thank you so much professor!

I must say its the best video on LQR I have ever seen ... Great Job Sir

This is an honest to goodness very good lecture, I'm learning LQR best than in the books. Thanks a lot.

That was really helpful, thanks for sharing ❤

Thank you very much, I learned almost every thing about LQR.

AE511

Great lecture Dr.lum, love it

Abdi

Your videos are entertaining and extremely helpful. Thank you for putting these together!

Amazing video about LQR, really informative and I really like how you also show the practical implementation problems and how to approach them

Thank you very much for this excellent video! You're making this subject very easy for us to grasp.

Hi, thanks for nice videos. But I did not find future videos you mentioned at the end of this video.Have you uploaded them yet? I am looking forward to watching them!

one more question: any plan about robust control and MPC?

A melhor didática do youtube pra explicar controle, que eu encontrei!

I guess at (34:11) control should be expensive, not cheap. make me correct if  I am wrong. thanks

I'm glad it was helpful.  There are more control videos on the channel at https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxdnSsBqCrrF9KOQRB9ByfB0EUMwnLO9o.  Please feel free to check them out and let me know what you think.  Thanks for watching!

Exactly Trueeee. That was a nice lecture. thanks

Hi Hetvi, 

It sounds like you are interested in control theory.  I answer questions in greater depth at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.   I hope you'll consider becoming a Patron so we can interact more closely.  Thanks for watching!

I'm glad it was helpful.  There are several related videos on the channel.   Please feel free to check them out and I would love to hear what you think in the comments.   Thanks for watching!

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  I can also answer any questions, provide code, notes, downloads, etc. on Patreon.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi Dollyo,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

As always, illuminating explanation. Thank you, Christoper.

AE 511 - This is Garrett, the breakdown of LQR is helpful since i see it often in my job but have never been familiar with the theory and background.

Brilliantly done. THIS is the way to teach controls. Real life tangible examples

Great!! Excellent class, congratulations.

I wish my teachers could teach like that. It's really amazing.

I wish you were my professor. I have been struggling for so long and I may fail my class. But with your videos it all makes sense. I wish I had found this channel sooner.

What a fantastic and informative discussion about using the LQR method!

Had a lecture on this today.  This video is priceless.

I found this just when I kind of understood how to derive the Ricatti equation. Now I know the gist of how to use it.

Thank you very much

Good examples to help understand the cost function

Hi Chris, thank you for putting the effort to make this lecture and having it online.

usually  I don't like the idea of watching a video more than 15 minutes but honestly I watch  all your videos until the end, you are great professor thank you so much

Wonderful explanation. Very helpful. Thanks a lot.

Sir you the best guy I had never seen, YOU NUMBER 1

I watched the full video  and I am very happy with everything I learned. Thank you Professor. Great explanation in the last part using Peter and his uncle hahaha.

Thank you ! It is easy to understand !

The best LQR control lecture. Thanks.

I always enjoy a optimization discussion on commute especially when a helicopter is an option. Great introduction to optimization and LQR.

AE511: ooh I really like this easily tune-able controller!

I'm glad it was helpful.  There are several related videos on the channel.   Please feel free to check them out and I would love to hear what you think in the comments.   Thanks for watching!

Hi Doug,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

You're welcome, I hope it was helpful!

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  I can also answer any questions, provide code, notes, downloads, etc. on Patreon.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Great Video! Thank you for your intuitive explanation of LQR control.

Great video, I like the real world examples.

The example was a great way to preface the denser material! Great lecture and helpful examples

Really appreciable.
Art was different

you sir are awesome, best video on any Control video, period.

wow wow! you are a best teacher

Thank you Professor !!!

This excellent video really helps me a lot especially for those people who cannot fully understand what the teacher taught in the class. Although the video is one and a half hour long, it didn't make me feel bored at all. Meanwhile, this video provides us how to calculate these equations through software methods, which I think is more practical and meaningful. It not only helps me pass the course but also teaches me the basic law of the control theory.

Best lecture for LQR for engineers...Thank you sir

Great introduction to LQR! The examples that change Q and R help gain intuition as a controls engineer.

Awesome lecture I have listened carefully whichs very helpful for my thises

Great resource for implementing LQR in lab

Amazing!!! Than you professor!!! 
Unbelievable how it is easy to understand when you explain...

I´ve seen three of your videos and I reckon each video was made with effort and in the best didactic way. I am grateful, they were a big help, thank you a lot. Cheers from Ecuador!!!

Great video! You can tell his passion for teaching!

Bro you are truly smart , the perfection in your left hand writing part is commendable,, which is rare ..

Watching again after 8 months ..

Thanks alot Professor ❤️

I really enjoyed the detail about the LQR method, it's also great to see that Matlab has an built in function to use it.

AE511. Excellent job wrapping up the term. The material progressed in a logical manner to conclude with this more sophisticated way to develop a control system.

It is a very clear and composed lecture. Thank You.

I'm glad it was helpful thanks for watching!

I'm glad it was helpful.  There are several related videos on the channel.   Please feel free to check them out and I would love to hear what you think in the comments.   Thanks for watching!

You're very welcome!

 @ChristopherLum  Would you recommend me a great book where I can have more LQR information? Thanks

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  I can also answer any questions and provide code/downloads on Patreon.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Thanks for the kind words and for watching!

Hi Saddam,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Great explanation

You've done it again, Chris! Not only do I know more about LQR control, I now know a bunch of different ways to get to Bainbridge Island from here. I'll have to try them all out sometime!

I really appreciate the practical approach you take to teaching controls concepts. I'm glad we didn't go into the weeds of deriving the solution to an LQR optimization problem and instead focused on how to use LQR to tune a controller

Really appreciate these videos!

More helpful than a book

Great video explaining LQR

AE511: Great video illustrating the power of using LQR.

That was very good :-)

Amazing introductory tutorial on LQR control. Keep it up!

wow ... thanks, man ... that's a very great lecture ...

[AE511] what an interesting method!

what a great class!!! helped a lot!

AE511

Great lecture 

Abdi

Wow what a video. Can't wait for more analysis of Bainbridge/UW travel options. I feel like some were overlooked here.

Thank you sir for such a nice explanation.

This is an excellent lecture!

Thanks professor.  I liked the examples, they made the concepts very clear and easy to understand from an engineering perspective rather than just the mathematical theory.

Thanks professor,  the explanation is very good with theory, matab coding and also examples

Thank you so much sir, this video helped me a lot with my first thesis

Dear Professor! Thanks for great job! Like and comment before actually watching the video. I have got used that quality of Your lectures is super high!

I can't endorse nor take responsibility for z4.  However if you try z5 please give me a call.

😂😂

Hi Raman,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  I can also answer any questions and provide code/downloads on Patreon.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi Diego,
I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

I'm glad it was helpful.  I'm working my way though the comments and I'll try to address your other questions on other videos soon.  Please continue to let me know what you think or if you have questions as you watch the other videos.  Thanks for watching!

Really excited to implement one of these with a Kalman filter for our Capstone project!

This is amazing. Thank you so much 😊

Thank you for such a simple way of describing and visualizing what Q and R are and the real life example to really solidify how to use LQR.

Good video! Thank you

Great video!

excellent video

This was beautiful!

AE511: great lecture, very interesting controller and theory in general. The LQR technique somewhat even gives insight to how K is computed using the 'place' command in Matlab, in terms of 'Q' and 'R' costs to the system. These lectures make me want to switch my specialization to Controls.

Interesting topic!

Fascinating lecture.  Looking forward to seeing more Control videos mainly devoted to Nonlinear systems.

amazing lecture, you should be proud of your teaching abilities. Many thanks for this free lecture!

excellent teaching style and explaining! I think everybody who has basic control theory knowledge can follow this whole video and learn a lot from it. Thank you for your time and effort!

THAT WAS AWESOME!

Cost functions are very interesting

great and thanks

thank  u so much sir

great work

Great video

Thank you so much for this awesome video!

thank you very much , you are awesome teacher,please add a subject for Robust Control,Allah bless you.

Thanks, in case you are interested, I have more control theory videos at https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxdnSsBqCrrF9KOQRB9ByfB0EUMwnLO9o.  Thanks for watching!

Hi Osama,
Thanks for reaching out.  If you have questions or would like to request a video, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi Matt,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Beite,

Thanks for the kind words.  If you have suggestions for future videos, please consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  I interact personally with Patrons at all levels.  Thanks for watching!

I'm glad it was helpful.  There are several related videos on the channel.   Please feel free to check them out and I would love to hear what you think in the comments.   Thanks for watching!

I'm glad it was helpful thanks for watching!

This is beautiful

great!!!

sir....I love you. Thank you.

AE511-Great video

nice example

Omg!! That was AMAZING.

Thanks for this. It has been a helpful introduction. I haven't had to deal with matrix control in more than 15 years, and I appreciate how you try to relate the math to the physical.

Dude, you are like.. the BEST prof ever. I don't understand why profs in all of my university controls courses never actually went onto MATLAB during lecture to show us whats happening. They'd just write a bunch of equations on the board and speak in such thick accents no one understood anything.

You saved my life

Really nice, looking forward to future videos

Wonderful explanation.. Thank you very much :)

Thank you so much sir ,its very helpful to me
thank you .

Thank you Christopher. this is a very good lesson on the topic which I'm finding very useful. I like the helicopter transportation to work. I feel you forgot to mention the Jetski or small motor boat. The latter would actually be a half decent method to get to work for not too much $$  :-)

AE511: I'm amazed at how the LQR system of Q and R matrices provide answers to some of the difficulties we previously encountered in FSFC with having to guess the coupling of poles to system gains.

5 mins in and I am like oh damn he is good

Lovely video! So very informative! Thank you soo much!

I watch full video of this , learn a lot. may u teach about MPC in next video? THX！

I was a complete neophite in control theory until I stumbled on your videos and now I'm beggining to understand. They are great thanks

What a great lecture. Please also make videos on Model Predictive Controller

I have never spent 3 hours on a video before...if by chance my brain started to think about some random things I kept rewinding it to watch it with full focus. gonna watch again tomorrow with a notebook to make notes so i can memorize the dialogues :D Thanks for the awesome clarification.

Hi Mersad,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

I'm glad it was helpful.  There are other controls videos on the channel.  Please feel free to check them out.  I'd love to hear from you in the comments on a future video.  Thanks for watching!

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  I can also answer any questions, provide code, notes, downloads, etc. on Patreon.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Thanks for watching, I hope to have a few more up in the next few weeks.

Hi Mohamed,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  I can also answer any questions, provide code, notes, downloads, etc. on Patreon.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

I'm glad it was useful, thanks for watching!

You make some good observations.  This is one of the fundamental concepts in optimal control.  LQR will show up over and over again.

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Thanks for the kind words, I hope to catch you at a future video.

Christopher Lum  you are very Welcome! I am also in need of understanding LQG. Can you help direct me to a particular site or source for me to understand it as well? I ask for other sites as I understand it would take quite some time for you to upload a video on it and I'm in immediate need of it😅 many thanks in advance!

I'm glad they are helpful.  All my Control Theory videos in a single playlist are located at https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxdnSsBqCrrF9KOQRB9ByfB0EUMwnLO9o.  I hope to hear from you in another video.  Thanks for watching!

Hi,
Thanks for reaching out.  If you have questions or would like to request a video, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

I'm glad it was helpful.  I have other controls videos on the channel at https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxdnSsBqCrrF9KOQRB9ByfB0EUMwnLO9o please feel free to check them out.  Thanks for watching.

 @ChristopherLum  its amazingly awesome...can't wait till tomorrow...watching again with a notebook already :D <3

Your lectures are really informative and fun , please make a video for full state estimator :))

Great work sir.Can u plz do a video on MPC.Many thanks

Thank you sir!

Осом! Эмэйзинг маэстро!

One of the best videos on LQR out here right now.  I have implemented LQR and used it several times but I just realized I didn't FULLY understand it until this video.  If you are taking requests I would love to see your take on receding horizon(MPC) optimal control as an extension to this.

AE511: very interesting to see the control of individual states.

USTAAD . Boht upar
Can you please create similar styled detailed and intuitive lecture on MPC. 
Although 
Thanks :)

Thannnnnnnnnnk you!

Loving these! Will you be publishing your Introduction to Linear State Estimation series anytime Christopher Lum?

Thank you so much .... clarified everything for me .... Can you please post a video on LQG if possible ... THANK YOU

wonderful job

Thanks a ton

Can not stop thinking about students in the back row trying to read the whiteboard. Great summary of LQR with really bad handwriting <3 Thanks Christopher

All good in using the technique, but the real meat is in that Riccati equation for the symmetric "impedance" matrix that optimizes the second variation of the variational lagrangian.  Hope you have a second video that goes into this subtlety.

5:20 I hope your bike doesn't actually sound like that! That squeaky chain needs some lubricant

Jokes aside, nice animations on the commute optimization :)

Hey Professor! Thanks for this wonderful video. I was searching a Kalman Filter/State Estimator introduction by you as well. Can you give us an introduction about to it?

Lum can get you to the Moon 😀. Good job 👍

Hi Professor, fantastic video. Do you have any lectures on implementing integral control with the LQR controller?

Amazing explanation!!....I  wonder if you can add another video about what if we want to use LQR in a more constraint fashion for example if we want to make add a constraint on the control action; u>=0 and u<=max value or any other constraint we have for the system. What if we want to use LQR for tracking (LQT)?.....LQR+integral action....State-dependent LQR

Plz bring video on fractional order sliding mode control

I'm working on this, stand by...

 @ChristopherLum  Thank a lot

Hi Saeed,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Quincy, thanks for the feedback. I've had a few requests for MPC control and it is on my list of videos to make.  I hope to catch you at another video!

You're welcome.  There are several other controls videos on the channel, please feel free to check them out.  Thanks for watching!

Hi William, I'm trying to work on this video right now but unfortunately I've got a couple of other higher priority videos that will need to get pushed out first.  If you're interested in the meantime, I've got a bunch of other videos on control theory at https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxdnSsBqCrrF9KOQRB9ByfB0EUMwnLO9o.  I hope they are helpful, thanks for watching!

In glad it was helpful, thanks for watching!

Hi Eyad,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

You're welcome, I hope it was helpful!

i'm still studying and have to admit his handwriting is decent. And for a left-hander, i would say it's good. The camera had some focus problems with the reflection of his shirt.

Hi Hali,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If the find the these videos to be helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Great videos sir,could you please explain for us the Infinite state dependant riccati equations .thanks

Amazing

Thanks a lot.Waiting for Introduction to Linear State Estimation Lecture.

AE511. It's nice not having to deal with panopto recordings to access the lectures for us long-distance students

i love it

Hi Chris. Best explanation ever. 
How can I calculate the cost function J for each simulation on matlab?

Can you do a lecture on LQR with reference tracking??? and how to select Q & R matrix??? probably with flight control...

Dear sir, Please make video on LQG control also...

謝謝！

God b.l.e.e.s y.o.u !!! May the force be with You!

Permission to speak Sir! if Granted:

Can you implement an LQR controller to a Civil Aircraft dynamic system.. Thanks in advance :)

Hello Chris,

It’s so great coming across your lecture and a it’s really so intuitive. I just want know why exactly Q is semi definite and R is definite? Is there any specific reason?

Hi Christopher Lum! Thanks for clear explanation and great presentation.
But what we are expected to do if ARE has no solutions?
I have a problem where S is 9x9 matrix and the Mathematica solver returns an empty list.

Ironically, I grew up in Poulsbo, also on braindamagedisland! ha, seriously though, ive been watching your series of videos for some time now and really appreciate your clarity of the subjects.

please explain about linear matrix inequality

Hello professor Christopher
Thank u very much for your effort.
I have a question, is there a reference about how to derive a control law and/or the cost function such that the states or the outputs go to a desired reference command?

Thanks in advance

Thank you for your lecture video. It's really helpful for me to understand LQR.
By the way, I have a question.
From your video, by using Riccati Eq, we can get the K = -R^-1B'S.
However, some other lectures why K is somewhat different.
Plz ignore the alphabet, but note that there are additional terms more such as
K = -(R + B'PB)^-1B'PA     (here ,R, B, P, A is not equivalent to your value but K has more additional terms compared to your K. 
Why different even in LQR solution? Please explain briefly.

43:05 ? what is the result, any assistance appreciated

Plz do fractional order sliding mode control

thank you very much for the helpful explanation, i have a system with non positive definite A matrix , as i understood i can solve the problem with adding the N matrix, if my idea was correct, how do i define the matrix N?

Thanks for your explanation. By the way, though Linear Matrix Inequality is not covered in your lecture, I'm confusing why should we use LMI to get a positive matrix solution S to make an LQ optimal control. Can you explain it to me? Thanks in advance! :)

Hi Ejidike,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Thanks for watching, I hope to have the linear state estimation discussion up shortly.

 @ChristopherLum  I look forward to it eagerly. You are amazing.

Matt, that is good to know that YouTube is easier than panopto.  Let me know if you have any other thoughts that would make this easier.

Hi,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi Sken,

First let me say thank you for your generous support of the channel, it is very much appreciated!

Do you have any particular interests in terms of videos or topics?  I try to prioritize request made by interested parties as much as possible as I plan future videos.

If you are interested, I interact personally with all Patreon members at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  Given your interest in the topic, I'd love to have you as a Patron.

In any event, I want to again say thank you for your contribution and for supporting the channel.  I hope to hear from you at a future YouTube video or on Patreon!

-Chris

close to brainbridge island*

 @willcawthra5454  Hi Will, that is great to hear, I love Poulsbo, Sluy's is the best!  I assume you're also in engineering, still in the PNW?  Please let me know what you think about any of the videos and thanks for watching!

-Chris

would you please upload linear quadratic gaussian LQG full tutorial

Thank's for your great video.
I've been trying to solve a Matrix riccati differential equation with mathematica.but i don't know how to write the code.I tried DSolve and NDSolve but it gave me error.can somebody help me plz?

At 25:21 when you were explaining the positive semi-definite matrix definition, I think you misspoke when you said for any value of x (including zeros) when in fact it is any non-zero value of x.

I don't get why my teacher didn't explain in a coherent way the importance of this control method

How to know q and r matrix that choose is good?

where is the link for the 1st video

Could you please add the link to Introduction to Linear State Estimation (TBD). I could not find it in the description.

Hi Sir, hope that you will publish this video soon - Introduction to Linear State Estimation (TBD)

Thank you sir  for the  vidéos .it is known that thé LQR control works with linear  systèmes ,but we can  control a nonlinear phisical systèmes like  inverted pundelum,TRMS,2dof hélicoptère with thé LQR ,HOW IS THAT

Would you be willing to make a video covering [Lavretsky & Wise] "Robust Servomechanism LQR"?

are u a japanese? really smart, man.

hi Dr. fine? can you give me more information about LQR simulink design?

You assumed input in last example related to DC motor to be single, can you kindly refer to some solved example/video with multiple input system? Further, what if, instead of driving states to zero, requirement is to maintain the states at some reference value or track some reference value. Such as keeping aircraft in steady state level flight or coordinated turn maneuver. How can we implement LQR in such scenarios?

AE511, receipt of viewing

If you had a non-zero input, do you place the K matrix to multiplicate the error K(ref-states)  or multiplicate only the states  (ref-K*states)

May I ask why there is always an error said that unable to resolve the name sim_X.time, when I was trying your example?

1:20:10 with great power comes great responsibilities 🤣🤣🤣

Hi,we have X’=AX+BU, if let V=AX+BU and then X’=V=a+bV that a=0, b=I. Can we choose V=-KX then U=inv(B)(V-AX)?
K=lqr(a,b,Q,R)

Sir ....In my case load torque is varies with angular position. I can not ignore load torque, Due to that one pole is shifted to right hand side of the s plane. Sir can you please tell me any intuitive idea to tackle this problem?

can you send me the matlab code lqr-pso tuned?

Yes,  I hope to have this up soon

Very great lecture on LQR. Thank you sir however I am still yet to really understand better the choice of Q and R, which it was a bit slower and more videos on it.

Jones Maria Thomas Richard Martin Sharon

Thomas Ronald Johnson Frank Clark Gary

Williams Christopher Hernandez Deborah Johnson Timothy

Robinson Karen Johnson Eric Thomas Carol

Why is J a linear additive ? As in why is it that we add 2 cost functions, and not multiply?

what is your refrence?

[AE 511]
Weighting the state and control seems powerful. It reminded me a bit of the Kalman Filter from Estimation Theory. The catch with all of this is that the system has to be linear? Which is why linearization is usually required to implement this type of control?

Hi sir. First of all thank you very much for this fantastic lecture. Sir, I want to know that LQR can be applied on Non-linear system? and if yes can you please make a lecture video on how to apply LQR on non-linear system? thanks once again

Williams Betty Robinson James White Maria

linear state estimation is not available

Dear Sir thank you very much for this video I want to know how to change the desired value (0) of X1 and X2 ??? thank you for your help!

good video, thanks, how to apply lqr method on MIMO system?

Doesn't the simulink State-Space block give an output of y instead of X? Otherwise, I really liked the video!

Hey that's a nice video here! Would it be usefull to neglect through Q the effect of a state by setting for example q11 low? We want to know if a state change in order to correct its error through command.

What are some disadvantages of using a LQR controller? or why might a controls engineer decide against using this method?

I assume we still need to check the controllability even using the LQR methodology?

Hey Chris,
Thanks for all your videos. 'Introduction to Full State Feedback Control' video has not been posted yet? I don't see it in your channel.

I don't think you have your Full State Feedback Controller video uploaded.  If you do, would you mind posting it in your video description?

Hall Christopher Thomas Lisa Perez Jessica

Hi Dan,
Thanks for the kind words, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  If you find these videos helpful, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  Given your interest in this topic, I'd love to have you a as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with all Patrons.  I can also answer any questions, provide code, notes, downloads, etc. on Patreon.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

 @ChristopherLum  Hi Chris. Thanks for the link. Definitely am joining as Patron

LQR is actually the dual of the Kalman filter problem so they are very related.  Yes, this requires a linear system.

Hi,
Thanks for reaching out, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  Unfortunately I'm unable to respond to questions on YouTube due to the sheer volume of inquiries that I receive.  That being said, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video as I'll be able to answer questions there.  Given your interest in the topic, I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Thanks for reaching out.  If you have questions or would like to request a video, please consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum.  I interact personally with Patrons at all levels.  Thanks for watching!

Hi,
Thanks for reaching out, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  Unfortunately I'm unable to respond to questions on YouTube due to the sheer volume of inquiries that I receive.  That being said, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video as I'll be able to answer questions there.  Given your interest in the topic, I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

The state space block outputs y = C*x + D*u. If you chose C = I and D = 0, then the output is indeed the entire state vector, x.

You can use appropriate elements in the Q matrix to emphasize or de-emphasize the importance of a given state.

It's pretty clear:
1) Computing the Ricatti Equations is a pain in the butt. None of us math folks like the idea of inverting damn matrices. 2x2 is annoying enough, most systems aren't just 2x2.
2) One must decide on Q and R, it's a heuristics method, or "spray and pray"
The suitable Q and R for scenario A might not be applicable to B. Say you want to design some GPS system, your Q and R might be great for an open area, but no longer good if say, the car enters a tunnel where the signals might be effected. 
That said, LQR is a powerful method that's widely uses. The flaws aren't detrimental, unlike PID.

Hi,
Thanks for reaching out, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  Unfortunately I'm unable to respond to questions on YouTube due to the sheer volume of inquiries that I receive.  That being said, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video as I'll be able to answer questions there.  Given your interest in the topic, I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi Karthick, thanks for watching.  I'm still working on that video.  In the meantime, I have a video talking about practical implementation of full state controllers at https://youtu.be/9vCTokJ5RQ8

 @ChristopherLum  That was a quick reply. Thank you, Christopher. You are doing a great job.

The introduction to full state video is now up.  Thanks for watching!

Thanks for catching that.  The full state video is now up.  Thanks for watching!

AE511:If no S solution that yield a stable system, then what we need to do? use different weight constants and repeat the process until it yield a stable system? Thank you for a great introduction to LQR.

@ "1:01:48" time there is the lqr, is int it care() function that we can use to get the data you from the mathematica

Excuse me sir, I want to ask how do I use the matrix value K? Because the results of the LQR control search will produce the matrix value K with the matrices order 1x2, but I don't understand what the meaning of K11 and K12 on the matrices

Am I learning or laughing?🤣

I am not able to locate the link to the "Introduction to Linear State Estimation" video. Could you please point me to it? Thank you.

Where can I find the video, "Introduction to full state feedback control"? The link aint in the description nor on your channel's videos. Did you delete it or somethin? ty

i could not find your the full sate feedback video..Can you please post the link

Dr can i ask you a question. What is the difference between LQR optimal control and Model predictive control MPC?

Please put more ads 🙄

I object!  If I place the closed loop poles, I know what the response will be.  I can convert the closed loop transfer function to the time domains and see the response.  Now how can one determine what is optimal by choosing Q and R values?   If you ask a dozen engineers bout what is optimal, you will get a dozen different answers.  Choosing the Q and R matrices is an art.  Define optimal!  What is this LQR garbage?  What about LQC where you control the system to follow a trajectory instead of just going to zero?  However, how is that better than a PID with feed forwards.
LQC, LQR are good if one must optimize a few different things.   I have an example where LQC is used to minimize a cost function between controlling flow and temperature and minimizing the error or cost function.  However, my cost function is just my opinion.  The example was flawed.  It was clear from my simulation that a recirculation line was necessary.
I will do admit that LQC is MUCH better than fuzzy logic if there are multiple inputs and multiple outputs.  MIMO.  What bothers me is that the instructors have little real-world experience.  They teach what they have been taught.  The real experiences and knowledge are outside of academia.

Is it okay to find it funny for a clown to be on fire?

I'm slightly disappointed the feasible set didn't include a trebuchet.

Just improve  your English  writing   plz

If A and B are controllable then you should be able to obtain a stable system.  Do you have an example of what you are asking about?

Thanks for watching.  I'm not aware of a 'care' function but if you'd like to use Mathematica for LQR, there is a function called 'LQRegulatorGains' that might be useful.

 @ChristopherLum  I have a small request if you could say me some literature or videos about reference tracking using the LQR method. Thank you so much for this video its the best video about LQR

Hi Kevin,
Thanks for reaching out.  If you have questions or would like to request a video, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Hi,
Thanks for reaching out.  If you have questions or would like to request a video, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum or via the 'Thanks' button underneath the video.  I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!
-Chris

Thanks for catching this.  I posted two additional videos on full state control.  Thanks for watching!

Anuj, I'm working on putting this together now, it should hopefully be up in a month or so.

Anuj, one of my lessons on full state feedback control is located at https://youtu.be/9vCTokJ5RQ8.  If you like it please leave a comment and share, thanks.

Thanks for reaching out, I'm glad you enjoyed the video.  Unfortunately I'm unable to respond to questions on YouTube due to the sheer volume of inquiries that I receive.  That being said, I hope you'll consider supporting the channel via Patreon at https://www.patreon.com/christopherwlum as I'll be able to answer questions there.  Given your interest in the topic, I'd love to have you as a Patron as I'm able to talk/interact personally with Patrons.  Thanks for watching!

Thanks alot Dr  @ChristopherLum 

