I've said it before; but worth repeating. The best, easiest to understand and follow, good guide to quadcopters. You need to write a book 🙂

Wow, I finally feel like I have a grasp on this pid crap. You are a natural teacher! Thanks!

That's very clear explanation about PID I've ever seen yet.... 🔥

This is a 400-level college course, offered as a free video. Seriously, you are a fucking treasure, Chris.

You are the only one doing PowerPoint slides on FPV on YouTube in 2021 and I love you for that. Haha. 
Great content and I love the way you have simplified the understanding of PID. For someone like me that has studied a lot of maths, your approach is pretty entertaining!

This is what I've been looking for for three years, and here it is. Thank you very much.

Your last video on setting up filters was also very helpful😊.

This is the best explanation of Betaflight PID tuning that I have seen so far. Good work.

This kind of explanation I haven’t seen neither during college, you’re simply the best teacher! Thank you for all!!

Great video! This level of detail is superb and very easy to follow. BTW my AOS 5 is really super clean! I think it’s gonna be my go-to frame. Thx

It’s like you knew what I was looking for, this video came at the right moment . Thank you

Another great seminar proffesor rosser !

Hard to explain subject, I’m in automation I don’t have the calculation but there’s a way to get close to 0-1% error in like 5 minutes on a simple close control loop. You did a great job here

Thanks Chris, nobody explained those teams as clearly and easy to understand as you. You are my new idol.

best explanation of how a PID works I've found on the internet.  I don't own a drone, but your explanation is outstanding and I think I finally have it figured out. Thanks!

What a great video for my flyday morning! Thanks man! 🤘

I'm only at step 4 but my quad has already improved a lot!
Thank you so much. It's very much appreciated!

This is quality. Thank you for sharing.

In essens, this is «Pid tuning for dummies - Explained». I needed that 👍🏻

Once again, so methodic and easy to follow. Thank you.

What an awesome video/explanation. I can't wait to try this on my AOS. Thanks Chris!

Between this and @UAV Tech one pack slider tune video, my quads have never flown so well! Thank you both for distilling this down to something straight forward and practical.

the problem is that, just like it is with old tuning videos, it will probably be out of date in a year or two as betaflight is being developed continuously

 @pgmcr5413  My 4.3 Guide is already underway. I've got you covered.

Easiest way to tune " Switch to KISS" click a preset, done!

Thanks Frank! Comments like yours make it all worthwhile. Stay tuned for the BF 4.3 and Emu 1.0 tuning videos :)

Glad it was helpful!

You're very welcome!

Great to hear!

Thank you for all these wonderful videos you've been putting out. It just so happens I have a 5 inch to tune and I'll give your method a go.

This is the most systematic and methodical PID tuning guide that I have seen. Well done 👍😀

Thank you for this Chris!  Would love to see a video on ESC tuning.  Demag, PWM freq, motor timing, ramp-up power etc etc.   would love to see how all that stuff fits in to all of this.

Great job. First time in 6 years of trying that I have understood P I D.
Many thanks.

Very informative, thanks. I'm about to start tuning a 10" quad using iNav and it appears the teachings in this video are mostly applicable. :)

this is 🔥🔥🔥 My 800g thiccboi porker Titan XL5 have never flown better than after following these tips on tuning filters and PIDs! Thank you Chris!
Now I just need to get good at flying 😜

You are the best dude! I have learned more than I'll ever realistically need to know from you and I have loved every minute of it.

Finally those stupid 3 letters make sense to me 😃😃😍 I appreciate your great work m8 👌

WOW MY QUAD FLIES AMAZING!! THANKYOU SO MUCH CHRIS!! i thought this tuning lark was all hype..i been running stock pids for a few years....i feel like i robbed myself lol

Great video. Thank you so much!

Perhaps a career as a professor is not a bad idea, a very intensive and extensive explanation about something that still requires quite a bit of attention!

Thanks again Chris! I always put off fine-tuning my fleet at the bottom of my list until you started making this easy to follow series. I also ordered your frame and can't wait to build it. Bring on the final vid!11

Great video again mate..   Anyone changing 'pidsum limit' who uses more than one PID profile should make sure it has changed for said profiles in the CLI. My Change only affected profile zero. Fly high guys!

I’m really loving this hobby and this video is exactly what I needed for my next step in my FPV journey. Thanks so much for sharing this 👏👏👏

By the way, after betaflight 3.5, the D term is derivative of gyro, not derivative of Error anymore in case anyone else is also wondering.

Thanks to this I understand feedforward good enough to write an excel simulation

Subscribed!  Awesome video - is there a D gain chart towards 7" and higher builds?  great stuff, thank you.

These video series are a must see for anybody that's in the FPV hobby flying quadcopters! Thanks for your hard work Chris! Very informative & educational guide to tunning ! Just what I needed 😀

what a clean explanation,thanks a loot Chris,master of tunning,oneday these videos will be more famous in fpv world

Tks a lot for this tutorial !

Wow, thanks!

I'll add it to the list. So much content so little time!

I would be interested in such content but rather from a knowledge aspect because from my testing I did not find ESC settings to have that much of an impact. And without any means of measuring thrust or smoothness it is difficult to find the settings that are best for your specific quad and purpose.

That's wonderful to hear! Thanks 👍

You're welcome, I hope it helps you get your quads flying even better.

Thanks I'll add a card in to clarify that. I learnt something today!

Glad it was helpful!

 @ChrisRosser  Thank you for the clean and structured presentation so I can always go back and rewatch some parts of videos you made

You're welcome 😁

I hope so too!

What did we do before Chris Rosser??

This guy is a beast engineer. Huge thanks for this amazing explanation, your teaching methods are super easy to comprehend and this adds a lot of valuable knowledge to this community. Great work Chris!

A clean aos-5 build makes tuning a breeze. My new daily driver, just ordered a second frame. Thanks for your detailed and thoughtful contributions to the hobby Chris.

thanks you kris
just a great tuto i learned how to tune a quad with facility (i dont now anyfing about tuning beefore) and i like so much the nice power point to explain all the fing perfectly
you make very great video 👍👍

Awesome explanation on the powerpoint. 10/10 would recommend. Subscribed!

Thank you for providing a mid 2021 state of the art step by step tuning guide! If you watch through the UAV tech videos of the past years already, most of that reveals itself to you... and I'm sure that's what you have been doing too.. but having that all in this compact form is absolutely amazing! And you added a few things I didn't actually know yet: Use that master slider for D-Term (definitely gonna try that), use a fixed low pass on D as biquad (I found a high dynamic LP setting that worked wonders, but still have D-Term noise... so gonna try that too!), use the correct templates for BBL (ooof, I probably just picked the wrong file out of that folder ;D). Also I never could really figure out what these PID terms really do and that wiki-article kinda started tooo high in the maths for me to decipher. Really great explanation on how these are calculated and what they actually do! Thanks for that part!

- high i gains are indeed fascinating - just got and tested my babyhawk II HD today, stock tuning has I in the 150s (P&D around 55) which felt quite weird to me but I gave it a try on stock tune and it handles surprisingly well and prop wash handling is superb - even though it doesn't come with rpm filtering. That was quite surprising. Might try this on my other quads too.
- agreed on the PD Balance Slider - how many of us are suffering from this? I really hope this is fixed soon.
- I think the slight over- vs. underdampening comes really down to the actual feel you want that quad to have. I bet this could at some point in the future be similar to sports mode and comfort mode of a car - the underdampening will make the quad feel very agile and responsive - so best for freestyle and racing, the overdampening makes it more behaved, feeling bigger and slower - I think for cinematic shooting this might be the better choice also to the part of jello in the video that actually comes from these overshooting events - what do you think?


A few wishes I have for further vids:
- provide real examples of how an overtuned quad sounds and how you distinguish a well sounding motor from one with to much D-Term/D-Term Oscillations - many who start in that hobby use cheaper bind & fly's without propper logging. (thank you OpenLager for existing, though :D). Also Mark made a vid where he got the D just right at the point where he could hear oscillations, but it wasn't quite distinguishable in the video... This would really be something great to listen to before tuning a quad in real life.
- example-footage of how you do your testflights would be cool - and then looking at the logs. I think I know what to do but... sometimes you just think you understood a description while in real life you are messing it all up - completely unkowingly ;D
- All my quads overshoot in snap jaw-turns even if setpoint tracking is pretty good on the roll and pitch. Is that a normal behaviour? On the other axis you would add D to the mix which supposedly isn't existing on Yaw. How does your AOS 5 behave in this discipline? What's a good behaviour here and how do you get there?

Awesome video!! I have been flying on the stock betaflight tune and am a beginner 5 inch pilot and this video really helps me understand PID tuning a little more.

Your a godsend my man this has been the easiest to understand of any I've watched so far! Thanks for everything you do for the hobby your awesome 🤟👌

Chris, are you able to make a tutorial on rotorflight? The videos are currently available and need more information in this format, comprehensive and straightforward

JB can learn from your teaching method, the visualizations and support text effort are really making you one of the best To go to!  Just add 2 minutes of flying every video, just for aesthetic en entertainment, and you are the next biggest quad Guru out there!

Love this thank you! It's been a mission to tune the 3 inch Cinewhoop and the 8 inch Cinelifter and have tried to grasp the concept of tuning by reading the Blackbox.. but it's like hieroglyphics. Loads of us need this. Thanks again!

That worked really well. I have a severely underpowered quad I like to fly but has always been horrible. I wasnt as aggressive with the filters but through your process figure out the D was half of what it needed to be. Incredible difference thanks

Perfect. An excellent video tutorial. Please also you can make one where you explain about the Rates. Thanks.

thx pal!

Could you do a video on how to tune both PIDs and filters on a a 65mm whoop?  The listening for bounce-back is super useful but it'd be great to see an example and also some insight on how to choose which filters to run and filter settings since whoops are so popular and lots of people are swapping to higher KV motors so the stock tune/filter often no longer works well.

Fusion racing frame👀

Very nice summing up and detailed explanation on thee process. even JB will learn somethings today ;)

THX

Very clear explanation! Thank you!

The rate at which you are producing high quality videos is amazing. Thank you. I will definitely try the "D first" approach with tuning. I like it because it is robust meaning that you end up with a better tune than before even if you stop your tuning session midway (bad weather, no more batteries, ...).

You're very welcome! Glad that you found the information useful!

So glad to hear it! Thanks for your support 👍

You're welcome, glad it helped.

Welcome aboard!

Hey Chris, is there anyway to contact you via Facebook or anything? tia

Underrated comment

The only comments he replied to or hearted are the ones that thank him and boost his ego a ton. weird coincidence lol

Thanks 👍 I appreciate your support.

So happy that you found the video useful!

Chris's visualizations and teaching style are fantastic. Because of the large number of videos that I publish (including livestreams, between 5 and 7 videos a week, for nearly four years running), it's often not possible to put as much time into each individual video as Chris does. A lot of my earlier videos were more academic and involved slide shows and diagrams, but with guys like Chris and Mark Spatz making amazing academic content, I have focused more on practical problem solving. My "visual aids" these days are more likely to be a quadcopter on the bench or a screen recording of a Betaflight menu.

Different goals, both fantastic content creators.

Everyone has their niche. I feel like I'm doing more academic content and theory where PowerPoint graphics and text are more appropriate. When I need to get something configured properly I search JBs channel, his step by steps are the best in the business for getting your hardware set up and working.

 @ChrisRosser  He became a guru by time, you become a guru by plan. Just saying that you could use some of JB's '' fun stuff'' and he could use some more charts and graphics. Both phenomenal drone content makers! I meant no offense, just some positive reinforcement !  <3

 @ChrisRosser  @Joshua Bardwell The P-D balance (professor-diagnostician) is optimized. Keep up guys, your works mark this hobby.

You're welcome!

Glad it helped! Happy flying.

Glad it was helpful!

You're welcome!

Yep I tried to design the process so that each step just makes things better and you can stop at any stage and still have a good result.

How fascinating, can't wait for your frame to arrive an put this tuning guide to use, I ordered it over two weeks ago.

28:48 sinus
check your LPF1

Great video and explanation, thanks 👍

Great Video.Thx Chris

Man, I love you.

Noice!

I think you are right. But I do think that having the rates correctly matching your 'muscle memory' will be the most beneficial even with untuned default PID values.
I grew up flying airplanes and favour the IMAC/F3A style flying (I am also quite old for a multicopter pilot) and therefor have deeply embedded muscle memory. I hate it when the quad does not move with speed that matches my expectations in relation to my stick movement.

Great videos! Thank you for going through this. 

It does seem like all of this can and should be automated somehow in order to get a very precise tune. All of the data is there that can be fed into an automated tool. I remember in the early days of arducopter a self tune feature was developed where the FC would command/read/adjust.

😎👌

Hi Chris, 
Would you be so kind to do the same vide but focused on Planes ? That would be great as I think there is a lot of common basics so to say but same tine differences are also there. Thanks

I am glad I found your channel, it taught me lots and lots about tuning and frame design. As I am  currently designing a frame for a sub-250 class drone it is very useful. I have lots of mavic mini motors as I am repairing dji drones and I wanted to build a microlongrange style quad that has mavic mini motors and I can put a naked gopro on top. For weeks I cannot tune it properly and I am not sure why. The frame has side stiffeners and in the BBE I can see no excessive vibrations. However I cannot tune it properly, it wobbles a LOT when flying. I wont give up and in a few days I will try this approach of tuning, maybe it helps. Is there a way of consultation if I run out of ideas? :)

You dam smart ! Do you have tune presets ? I bet they would ROCK !

I'm trying to use your approach with a 3 inch kwad.  What difference should I expect in term on Filtering and PID. ?   Thank a lot for your video you, UAVtech  and JB are opening
 my mind one video at a time !

Thanks.

Great video!  Personally I turn off everything and tune PID only  and use filters if needed. Im old school, lol

Great video! I like how well prepared your content is. PowerPoint might sound boring, but for this kind of educational video it's easier to follow and understand as if you'd just speak to the cam. Maybe I'll finnally get my copters tuned properly and see if it affects my ability to rip more aggressively thru the spots ;)

Gona need this for new build...thanks

12:23 this seems like also a good chart for if you have multiple pid modes set up
fly high d, but turn right down if you crash, before flying back and inspecting

So this video says "even without blackbox". But at the beginning you say one needs to go through your filter tuning video first for the first 3 steps. In that video, you depend on blackbox data. So how to proceed?

Hi Chris, just want to thank you for bringing some "engineering" and "Science" into this hobby. I do watch other FPV channels where many are intuition or experience-based. However, I find your videos more than informative. I managed to do my first PID tune (understand what I'm doing and knowing what I expect) for the first time! Keep up the good work! Also, I m wondering if there another way than Patreon to support the channel?  I am pretty sure there are some viewers among the 10k who prefer a once-off contribution!  Thanks again!

Yeah shipping is a nightmare at the moment. I hope it arrives soon!

 @ChrisRosser  Me too, if I have any questions, how can I ask them of you?

No problem 👍

No problem 👍

Thanks! Glad you enjoyed the video!

The robots will put me out of a job soon no doubt 😁

You're welcome

You need feedforward to avoid I term windup so it's worth using it if you are not already.

I find that a tight tune really helps with my confidence. I'm not worried about propwash and I feel like the quad will 'be there' when I need to make a quick correction to dodge a branch. I hope you enjoy your tuned quads even more!

No problem. Hope your new build goes well.

Yes. Absolutely, that's what I recommend for people who fly high D gain. Have a second profile with stock filters and PIDs to fly home on if you crash 👍

I'm glad you enjoy the channel. If you'd like to support in a different way then you could consider the AOS 5 frame which I designed. aos-rc.com lots of people who've bought one say it's the best flying frame they have.

This is interesting. I've been following Mark Spatz general guide, but with build I know will have low authority I've been upping the master slider first before starting PD balance.

@18:19 in the video, I think there is an argument that a slightly under-damped tune will feel the best. The quad will reach the setpoint faster, and the tiny bit of overshoot will not be noticeable, practically speaking. Every time I've tried to do a tune that hit the ideal "critically damped" response, the tune felt more "fragile" in that small changes in the setup would push the tune out of the critically damped region. I just felt I liked the slightly under-damped feel better. I guess what I would say is, given the choice between under-damped and over-damped, I would err towards under-damped. Especially because it's difficult to tell the difference between critically damped and over-damped when looking at real world data.

Hi Chris. Thank you very much for the amazing video series. 
Because of your viedeos I am currently on a deeep dive into quad tuning :-) - and I love it. 
At 16:18 you talk about enabling iterm relax. Which are the settings you can recommend? 

What do the values exactly mean and how do they change the behaviour of the quad?
 # get iterm_relax
iterm_relax = RP
profile 0
Allowed values: OFF, RP, RPY, RP_INC, RPY_INC

iterm_relax_type = SETPOINT
profile 0
Allowed values: GYRO, SETPOINT

iterm_relax_cutoff = 15
profile 0
Allowed range: 1 - 50

Thank you very much.

mine will sometimes flutter oscilate fast, bad prop wash on heavy Li-ion. So i need lower D gain. I raised and wasnt fixing 😂💀

Hi @Chris Rosser this guide is still valid on Betaflight 4.4 ? I prefer this guide over the new one you have released because i think this is more "pilot based" and i can do it on the filed using betaflight osd or EdgeTx betaflight lua script. Thank you for your answer 🙏

I have this problem when rolling left or right my quad is rolling like with the throttle is up    It wont roll slowly

Does my quad need to be a brand new fresh build to follow your tuning guide?

Great explanation! Thanks a lot :)

Did I understand it right, following your filter/tuning recommendation gives the quad a very good performance, but still leaves some room in case of new props/badly bent props or if I don't mount a gopro (tuning with mounted gopro)? Or should I be afraid of smoking motors?

And this is why I've never tuned a quad in my life since flying 5 years ago. Rather spend my time in the air flying. It would be easier to master Thermodynamics or Nuclear fusion.

something i've fund is that with the you change Pid Profiles the PidSum limits dont carry over (Betaflight 4.3

I’m on 4.3 but there is not dmin toggle under pid controller settings

I just built a quad, so should I start with your filtering video first?  It was a Frankenstein of a build, fc and parts from other quads.  Input would be great.  Thanks for the vids.

Can I use this guide for my whoop as well?

Does anyone know of a pid controller that will vary the voltage output rather than just cycle on and off. Thanks

👍👀🇭🇷

What would the dgain chart look like for a 3”

Why are the 2 pics of the PID loop different? one shows the Gyro to D, the other shows it does not?????

Just curious, have you tried the mathematical approach to pid tuning on quads? I remember learning in my controls class about a formula that used the distance between crests on the step reaponse curve to give you new pid values, which you would input and keep doing this over and over until you had an ideal curve

Video isn't playing all the way to the end for me tho

20:17 Any chance you could post a recording of what the single and double “zip” sounds like on an actual quad? Thanks!

I like cranking up the master slider first because it makes bounceback and overshoot easier to hear and see in the logs. It gets sooo much sharper and louder with all the gains turned up. Helps a bunch with tuning PD balance!

Agreed JB. Like if having a plane balanced. Make sure a little noise heavy if erroring one way or another. In this case, error toward Under Damped.

Cool to have all three masters(JB, UAVt and Chris) active in this comment section. You guys should make a video together.

 @Font_University  I totally agree 💯!!! After watching the video and then reading the comments from each of the “Three Amigos” would make a SUPER VIDEO… I’m glad I didn’t skip reading through the comment section! Should be required reading!! 👍👍

 @Font_University  I agree, the amount of knowledge between those Three is insane. JB could do a livestream on Thursdays, with Chris and Mark, Tech Thursdays, that goes into tuning and building with a FINE tooth comb. Maybe once a month so jb has a couple nights off a week at least haha.

I agree with this too. In my experience, the quad feels better in the air with an under damped tune.

agree, Josh.   In fact, following Chris' instructions on adjustments to PD balance and PD gain using the Setpoint response curve as a guide, I have never been able to truly acheive that critically damped or slightly underdamped curve, even with manual values of P approaching or becoming slightly less than D.... Further reducing the P values paradoxically worsened the response curve.  That brown curve of his, with just a bit of overshoot, is the best I can achieve, and the quad feels pretty good there.

what he's speaking about is the perfect tune, not the more reliable..

Hi Chris, I'd love to have a guide for EMU too !

I've just experienced my first.... quadgasm...

Great video, thanks for sharing your thoughts. In my experience higher  I-Term produces a "stiff" flight feeling. Additionally on HD cruising flights it sometimes produces windup wich give me a "pumping" HD video. It depends on what motor I use for a quad, I found week motors to be more sensitive to this.

Boy this would take ages to tune the quad incrementally by one tick at a time.

Hi Chris,thanks for you videos!! , I have a doubt , at 33:01 , to much FF (overshoot) what the quad actually do ? can you be more especify  , “example “ thanks in advance “

I really like the “locked” feeling from higher I gains, but there’s a fine line where it begins to feel to robotic, I prefer the more organic feeling as if the quad and I are moving on the same wavelength, if that makes sense lol

Zip,zip zip

why does higher dgain cause hot motors? whats happening to cause that?

13:10 You can run 45 D gain, but if you crash, change PID preset ;)

what is different on 6s vs 4s?

i have the new ez pilot pro thats the newest version of the tinyhawk with  the upgraded cam  should it be 8k 8k no rpm /bidirectional dshot and has dshot 600 enabled but if i enablr thr bidirectional s=dshot it goes down to 8k 4k dshot 300 and the cpu load is the same no matter what option i pick which is around 50% to 55% load on the bench so yeah and what would be a good rateprofile for it as well

Wonderful graphical presentation of PID terms, Chris! :-)  Why are pidsum limits not 100% by default?

Hi. I’ve set temp protection for the ESC’s to 140C. This lead to decreasing rpm when increasing power. As well in bf as IRL. Also for each motor individually. 
Deleted the temp protection and all good again. Is this common?
It’s a reaper 4 in 1 , 45amps

I was trying to tune a freshly built quad which flew decent on stock PIDs i setup RPM filtering in my blhelis ESC by flashing jazzmaverick 16.9 and setting up Dshot600. (Using a diatone mamba F405 FC with F40 HV blhelis ESC). I setup RPM filtering from JB's video on BF 4.1 . 
Everything flew fine when i tested the quad indoor with master slider ar 1.2 , Dmin OFF, pidsumlimit commands executed I was mostly checking the step response of the default flight and the flight with master slider at 1.2 and i seemed to have eliminated bounceback/oscillation but there was a bit of overshoot still motors were quite warm but not yet hot. 
I think i got greedy at this point and put Master slider at 1.3 and went out in -20°C temperature to get a small acro flight in to get some logs . The quad tapped the ground once and flew to the moon, in my attempt to make my quad fly better i damaged it 😆. 
It would be really helpful if someone could tell me where things went so wrong.

Just brainstorming, could it be theoretically possible to do logging through BetaFlight OSD, recording the footage on goggles and extracting that with a special tool from the video stream. Maybe using the first x lines/columns of the video feed?

@11:40 Does this also apply to 6inch builds? Thanks Chris

So filters have to be done firts and pid after filters are set?? 
Chris with this video I had learned more about pid tunnig than for the last 3 years thanks

Step 5 seems wrong. Followed the notes and doesn't reduce step response. Seems to make it worse actually...

P/D balance changes P in 4.3/10.8 already.

Really nice video!
Please correct me if I'm wrong, but I think the D-term isn't based on the Pid-error. It's just based on the gyro. That's why the D doesn't interact at the beginning at sharp inputs(even without fast setpoint-tracking when the Pid-error is high) . ✌️

Coming when EMU goes to 1.0

You're welcome?! 🤣

The stiffness depends on the ratio between P, I and Feedforward in my experience. If you increase them all then I think the feel stays much the same.

I'm not a subscriber to the concept of tuning your PIDs based on feel. I would suggest tuning I term based on tracking the setpoint then adjust feel with the rates. Once your quad tracks setpoint closely your PIDs are no longer even in the equation for feel. Its then 100% your rates that determine how the quad moves.

That's a great idea. Have one PID preset on stock as a limp home mode!

 @ChrisRosser  Just like Turbo cars go into limp mode if ECU detects errors :)

Not sure. Perhaps it's to prevent oscillations if your PIDs are very wrong.

I'm sorry to hear that! Do you have a log of the flight by any chance?

Yes, always go filters, PIDs, rates in that order so you don't have to repeat steps.

Step 5 is feedforward? That won't affect step response and may make it worse. FF is for setpoint tracking.

 @ChrisRosser  The P:D balance Step 5. In Pidtoolbox the step response x-axis goes from 0-1.75 from bottom up, but the figure you show has the values from 0-1.75 top down. I thought the axes were the same, so I was decreasing P gain instead of increasing it. I got it figured out, thanks Chris, great video.

Mark Spatz suggested that change hasn't been confirmed.

Yep, that's a mistake that was pointed out to me. Need to add a card.

 @ChrisRosser  so isn't it true that the D Term is in charge of keeping the error constant?

Hi Chris, I have some questions for you. First, do higher kv motors have better PID handling/ are they easier to tune? My thinking is more power means the quad can respond to PID errors quicker. Second, if the previous is true, could (for example) having 1950kv motors with a throttle limit that mimics the feel of a 1750kv motor mean that a pilot could have the throttle feel that they would prefer while also having superior PID control? 

The reason I ask is I currently run a 2550kv motor with a motor output limit of 70%. But if I could raise that to 75% and have a throttle limit of 5%, I wonder if the quad would indeed fly better. I tested this myself, but frankly, I don't feel a difference. Perhaps there is a difference, but at my skill level, I can't tell. I don't have blackbox logging, so maybe you could see whether there truly is a difference or not. 

Looking forward to your response. Whether I'm right or wrong, it will be fascinating to hear what you have to say

I just finished a new build and can't wait to follow your whole checklist, from filtering to pid tuning, in order to tune it "scientifically", finally without just relying only on subjective impressions. Just out of curiosity, do you believe that we could be able to follow the very same process also to tune quads of different dimensions, e.g. 3'' or 4''?

By the way, I believe you forgot to provide the list of inexpensive FCs you mentioned at @22:30! It's a pity because I was super curious to see what brands you would recommend, in spite of being cheap!

I'm sure you've heard if not had this question. Could we have 2 or more filter/pid profiles based on raw noise from our gyro? So if bend a prop it can switch to a more conservative pid tune? Say to fly home or finish a race? I'm sure I'm not the only pilot that clips a turn and is going to finish the race or break something no in between.

Thanks Chris for this awesome approach, my quad flies amazing, but I still have a small problem:

I turned the master-slider all the way up to 2.0 and still had cool motors and no wobbles or funny behavior. I followed all the steps before, but what I cant get rid of, is bounceback on the pitch axis on full stick flips, any suggestions? I have to say, that I fly a pretty heavy quad, beacuse I carry a Hero 9.

19:08 already done in 4.3

How does this transfer over to a 3” build?

Thanks Chris, your vids have been making my quads fly a lot better! I have a 2.5" build that I fly in various configurations; open props, prop guards, 2s 3s, and sometimes with a SMO/naked gopro, or a 360Go camera. My question is, when adding weight to a quad like this, what settings should I focus on when tuning to compensate for the added weight? Also Because this quad can fly in so many combinations of setups, is there a way to have more than just 3 profiles in betaflight? Or should i just save a different DIFF for each setup? Thanks!

Very interesting and informative video. Would the process be the same / similar for a 5" race build with its higher power weight ratio? Thanks. 👍🤓

Step 4. Find your max D gains. Goes against what UAVtech is saying actually. Because he says that the lower the PD balance the better the performance. You should ask him about that. Other than that GREAT video AGAIN

09:04 Yaw absolutely has a D term. It's often not used, but to say it doesn't have one is false.

Hi Chris, first of all thank you for this incredible series of videos.

I would like to ask you a couple of small clarifications:
1) When checking for max D-term and then for PD balance, the "Stick Response Gain" slider shall be in the center position on 1.0 or shall I turn it to 0.0 on the leftmost position ? What about feedforward transition ?
2) Is there any particular BLHeli32 / BLHeliS setting that you recomend before this tuning procedure ?

Thank you in advance!!

I've always flown with 65 D gain on my 5" 4s kwad with rough bearings and bent S3 props, then I saws this brilliant video. What should I do now? 😀 Im scared

PLEEEASE do a video like this but for tiny whoops and toothpicks. I feel like in the past 3-4 years the popularity of quads has shifted towards smaller builds, not that 5 inchers aren't the king and amazing and all that, but there just seems to be many more thousands of people flocking to FPV because of the tiny guys! The only thing we're missing is a legit tuning guide for whoops. We don't have blackbox, but one of my whoops does have a microphone and I was thinking about using my audio production knowledge and running the audio from the propellers into a spectrum analyzer to see if maybe I can tune that way? Any ideas for that, any future plans to make a whoop vid?

Is the reason to tune the master multiplier first (vs PD gain) so you can detect overshoot easier?

That's unfortunate you didn't need to tune I-term. As it brings a whole lot of trouble. Like it pulls harder than P-term but leads to slow overshoots. And how to tell if you've got too little I-term? It's possible to have nice critically damped tune without I-term at all. 

At the step response for Yaw it looked like you need a tiny bit less P (fast oscillations) and a lot more I-term as step response needs to converge to the level 1.

Great explanation but doesn't betaflight calculate the D-term from the gyro rate instead of the error?

Really good video. In 31.05 Somekind of dilemma adding some ff or P. Because too much P slightly feel likely add of rate and too much ff much more likely turbo rate during full roll. Please advice. 🙏

Great Chris! How D gain and pid tune for a 7" long range like a Chimera7? Thanks a lot I appreciate so much the way you explain!

Hi Chris will this tuning guide/logic will work on something similar to Betaflight (like Emuflight) or you will say only use this on BF quads?

Chris, I have a question. Does it matter if you tune rates before PID's? For example, I prefer quite "slow" rates, so even a full stick deflection produces sorta slow responce. So according to my logic we should get different PID's for different rates, am I right here?

Good catch! I'll add that list. You should be able to follow this process on quads of any size up to 7inch.

It's a great idea. I know you can switch manually but I'm not sure about automatically that would be very sophisticated.

You need to go off sliders and decrease your pitch P term.

Yep, I was going to say the same.  It's in the current development builds.

Mark Spatz seemed to think it might not be... What is the current behaviour? Does it only change P?

 @ChrisRosser  Hi Chris, yes I just checked and moving the slider to the right only increases P

 @ChrisRosser  they was arguing about changing both P and D to the different directions

The process is exactly the same for 3".

Probably a diff is the way to go for so many configurations.

 @ChrisRosser  so should I just up my master gain slider when adding the extra weight? Or Just Re-Tune all together? I don't like tuning with the expensive camera on if I crash or get a weird launch from takeoff. I may just 3d print a dummy camera for tuning...

Yes, this should be a good process for most quads up to around 7in.

 @ChrisRosser  thanks. Ordered the damping grease. Happy flying.

Imo you missinterpret what uavtech he just tries to have as low d as he can and then he boosts p and d, so the result is similiar. Main difference is lower I values caused by using master slider  more than p and d gain.

 @GibRealistic  correct.

show me a man that fly with not zero D on yaw wo enabling integrated yaw feature? In all other cases D on yaw makes things only worse

 @mikenomatter  I see whoops with a yaw d of 2-5 quite often.

Either way, he was talking about how each axis has its own pid controller, and that yaw doesn't have a d gain. Which is false.

When checking max D and PD balance turning down FF is a good idea. No need to change FF transition.

ESC tuning video incoming in the next few weeks!

You are on 4S this recommendation is for 6S. You are probably fine.

I've added this to my video list. I think this is a perfect winter video! You can tune without blackbox if you've got a good ear (which you obviously have being an audio professional) I have a bit of info on what to listen for.

Spot on. The bounceback gets sharper with higher gains, it makes it easier to hear.

Sounds like you are going to enjoy my fine tuning video! For this stage I stayed on the sliders so it's not perfect yet.

Yes. I corrected myself in the PID tuning deep dive. Sorry for the confusion.

If your PIDs are well tuned then flight feel is controlled by your rates only. Don't tune your PIDs based on feel just get the tracking good then adjust rates to get the best feel. 👍

Hi, I will do some more specific tuning videos in the future. After I release the AOS 7 I will do a tuning video for 7in.

 @ChrisRosser  ...what a news!

yes, it will. more than that emu 1.0 is going to merge last BF changes so it will be even more equal than now

Your PIDs affect how your rates feel. So we always go filters, PIDs, rates in that order so we don't have to go back and repeat steps. If you do rates first then tune PIDs you will need to go back and adjust rates because they may feel different after.

It is called “P D” balance....if you want it to only balance P then ask for the individual slider to be added. If it only corrects P then it should not be labeled PD.

Hi great work. A question: is not better to check the pidtoolbox without ff?  Thanks for the answer

My Flywoo Explorer LR came out of the box with max D gains at around 65 and min at around 45 but my motors are cool after flights how come it's so high compared to your recommendations is this because pidsum_limit is on defaults?

Hey Chris I really love your videos and I'm doing my best to follow along and implement things into my tune but I'm having an issue. 
I have your aos 5.5 frame with fpvcycle 25mm motors and everything is clean and no vibes on stock bf 4.2.9 but anytime I do a snap flip front or back on the pitch axis the quad wigs out and does a violent flutter sound and the quad doesn't want to do snappy front or backflips.. I get over or undershooting or bounceback it seems like... any ideas what I can do?? My favorite move is the juicy Flick and I can't seem to do it with the aos but if I drop the same stack and motors ect in my other frames it flies great... I'm at a loss

Hello Chris, 
First of All THANK YOU for sharing this master piece, very usefull!!!! Also i would like to ask you a question:
Since the last release of BF there is no "D min" to turn off. Do i need to turn off something else or is it fine like that?
Thank you in advance for your help.
Best

I wonder if changing pidsum permanently is the right thing to do. I see the default for pidsum_limit is 400. I had desync problems with the motors before I changed ESC ramp-up from 50% to 13%. Why is there a pidsum limit so low and I hardly find any info about changing it (permanently). Is there anything one has to consider or to do after tuning with it?

About I-Term.. Last time i tryed to use less I-term, but higher Anti-gravity gain. Looks like it work well with "nose drop" after throttle cut, without adding a slow bounce-back after "look-back frontflips" at full throttle.
Can you explain please in further videos how antigravity and I-term relax works?) I cant feel any difference after moving I-term relax values. Even logs looks the same. Its something about bouce back in description, but i dont have it anyway at this point.

Thank you for the video! Finding max D values is easy, but I'm struggling with PD Balance on my custom build. Diatone Roma F4 LR frame with Diatone Mamba Toka 2004 2900KV. By feel I like PD Balance slider on 1.4 (whereis P and D are equal), but looking at blackbox and pidtoolbox it's far from ideal. Maybe I shouldn't bother about it and fly the way I like? :)

Chris, what's the process for whoops,toothpicks, and small classes below 5"

sir,,i guess some suggestion in the next content if might be consideration,,is about esc protocol which is majority of the hobiest are not knowing well between dshoot600,dshoot1200,dshoot2400, which it may effecting the pid tuning,maybe?

Sorry for the dumb question.  What do "rough" motors sound like?  I am currently tuning my AOS 5 and am not sure if I have pushed the PID master slider to high? At 2.0 the motors are warm to the touch, but I would like to know if I should be listening for issues with the motors at that agressive a tune. Thanks

Would a physical analogy for PID error be a displacement in a shock absorber? Where the spring is the proportional term (force proportional to the displacement) and the cylinder is the derivative term (force proportional to the speed or rate of displacement)? However I don't know where the integral term would be represented..

Hey, great vid - thank you. But I have troubles with one thing: in the title you mention that your method works "even without blackbox" but in the intro you reference your filter video in which you rely on balckbox logs. So my question is: What would be your recommendation for tuning a whoop which often (most times) do not have a possibility of logging? Do you have any recommendation for properly setting up filters "blindly"?

thanks for these series! Want to follow this, but running emuflight. Would that be compatible enough? (specially the filter part)

Hey buddy love you videos. I'm having trouble with the pidtoolbox. When ever I try and load a log it says insufficient data. I fly an intire pack doing lots of 360 rolls and flips. What am I doing wrong? Thanks for any help you could give me.

chris you are making videos very hard to understand for new pilots man. could you please explain PID tuning in English which we can understand?????  Please..

no black box alright im game..

Hi, Chris. I really want to buy your AOS 5 frame. Problem is, I live in China and I don't really know where to buy it from. Any clues on that?

I have a small question: Would a very thing rubber mat with very high grip also help with vibration damping since it would increse friction but in a felxible way. (For example i have a very very thin anti slip mat I use for my sharpening stone and thought to myself that might work too)

I've got another question Chris. On BLHELI 32, which do you recommend on pwm frequency, 24 or 48? I've always used 24. I saw a video talking from Joshua and another person talking about 24 and 48. It was from a 2019 video. They recommended 48. I still would like to know your thoughts on this. And also, why would you recommend that number. Thank you in advance!

By that argument it should be called D balance because atm it only changes D!

 @ChrisRosser  Last time I checked, that slider is actually DP balance since it's D/P, really confusing.

I’m new enough to BF that I’ll take every comment with “a grain of salt”. 

Chris’ comments hold a lil more weight as I’ve listened to his process, although being that knowledgeable sometimes adds explaining issues.
Last I looked I also thought it was both a D and P slider...but that was a lil bit ago and just as important I’m not even sure what version of BF I was running.

My comment was meant to balance BF against Chris and still be accessible to new tuners that need explicit definitions for labels on each tab/slider in BF. 
I would love for BF to include more “warning” and descriptive labels so new users can more easily use it.

Yes. You may get a slightly cleaner trace with FF off. If you leave FF at default and increase the master slider FF is often low enough not to bother pidtoolbox in my experience. In my fine tuning video I advise FF to zero before tuning PD because it's a fine tune.

It's a smaller frame than 5inch with very low KV motors.

Hi, sorry to hear you're having issues. Drop me an email with your logs and a few pics of the build and I'll take a look!

It's now called dynamic damping and has its own slider in expert mode. You can move the slider down to zero to turn it off.

 @ChrisRosser  Thank you again!! amazing works sir !! I love your videos, so interesting and very well explained. Keep on the amazing work 👍👌

I think the lower pidsum limit is to prevent oscillations if you have a bad pid tune but I'm not sure.

Sure! I have a fine tuning video planned which will cover some of the finer aspects of tuning.

 @ChrisRosser  Nice) I will save them all to my playlist) You doing great job!

Don't make the common mistake of tuning PIDs by feel. They must be tuned right regardless of feel. Then you need to tune your rates to get the right feel.

 @ChrisRosser  I've tried every possible PD Balance slider values, but in BlackBox Explorer Gyro is always oscillating following the Setpoint. Thank you for reply!

Exactly the same, you will end up with different values of your PIDs though.

I'll add this to my video list after the tuning series.

 @ChrisRosser  tq so much sir,,best salute to your time,,godbless u always

At idle the motors make a grinding noise. In the air it can sound like a rough trilling or buzzing noise.

Thanks @ChrisRosser :-)

The P term does work like a spring on PID error but the D term is more like a shock absorber attached to the quad that resists all movement of the quad.

You can try my recommendation for filter setting and check for hot motors and oscillations. If you don't have any you're good to go.

​ @ChrisRosser  Alright, thank you - that is basically what I have been doing till now: Enable bi-directionsl DSHOT for RPM filtering - leave the PIDs at default set dynamic notch width to 0 and see how far I can move the filter sliders to the right until I get hot motors or oscillations. In your filtering video you disable a lot of filters in favor of the RPM filter - what would be your recommendation of order in which to disable the filters?

Yes, should be quite similar.

Thanks!

Hmm, I don't know I've never seen that error. Maybe try asking in the BF support group?

Yep you can still tune without BB.

 @ChrisRosser  glad i havent started my 5.5 build yet! with your aos 5 and 26xx motors its gonna beat my 110mph top speed on xl6 and 2207 xings..    do you think notchy motors that feel like they have viberation in your hand wjen spun will cuase issues to the gyro.. i was spinnging my emax ecos and they feel very rough persay comepare to my fpvcycle 30mm

I'm working on Chinese manufacturing of the frame.

 @ChrisRosser  any chance we could get an update when it all works out? As I'm really looking forward to buying your frame. Literally no other frame interests me as much as this one, not even close.
Keep up the awesome work, friend! And thanks for your reply!

Lot's of people are having success with thin rubbery materials. I haven't tested any myself because I like the grease.

 @ChrisRosser  Good to know. I mean in theory it serves the same function. I will definitley try :D

I would use variable PWM 24-48kHz on BLHeli32 to get the best of both worlds.

 @ChrisRosser  Oh, I'll have to find a tutorial on that. It's my first time hearing it. Thanks a lot!

Hey Chris’s, what are your thoughts about hybrid frames?
Like running in den front 5 inch arms and on the back 6 inch arms but still using 5 inch props. For the cleaner air. Do you think this is good or just a Mythos ?

Any suggestions on a 3inch 6s machine (Diatone 369) ? Updated to latest BF and now it flies like crap even with the old pids :(

Any general changes to this for a 7" quad?

Your statements of type of d gains to suit a particular type of gentry is quite funny. With cross fade tune Ive tested d gains in the 80’s 90’s cool motors no trilling and can handle bent props and still keep motors Cool. Clearly the  works project has moved into a direction that almost makes this out of date information already. I can just push tune higher then I would ever need without issue.  Oh yeah in a £27 tbs source one it’s that simple. The source one is a great frame super cheep tuff open source project that exists without endless highlighting of issues.  Like all frames do this and of course not the aos 5.  Mmmm clever sales pitch is what I see.  Hows the slider vote going. 😂😂

Thank you for making PID tuning more straightforward and understandable. However I would suggest a video how to interpret step response graphs of PIDtoolbox https://youtu.be/XxPBlMckeEg?t=711
I saw overshoot on my graph, started to decrease P gain as suggested and actually went totally wrong way.

fyi the sliders don't match up to the latest configurator can't really follow along with this guide 🙁 any recommendations on what a rookie should do now?

How do you turn up or down feedforward? Is it just adjusting what was set to 0 or do you have to do it through the stick response or something else?

Is it bad if my P terms start getting as low/lower than my D terms? using this method

After discussing the step response analysis at 25:37, you show what good looks like, but don't discuss what a bad step response would be or what to do - do we follow the same steps as outlined in the "No logging, no problem" section (20:07)?

Hi Chris, hope you are well :) I would like to use some of the figures in these slides in a presentation and report I am doing. If I reference yourself in the use of them, would that be okay? Thank you!

As with D_MIN ON, the advice are to stick to the usual D in the PID D MIN settings ( with D_min OFF ) , shouldn't we increase it up to 30 when we want to use stock / beginner D ? 

Because D min value  goes down to 23 when you have D_min ON.

at mr chriss,,is there any chance reviewing others firmware such as falcoX🤭

I'm having a weird result from my step response. There's a big initial overshoot on pitch and roll of 1.3 - 1.5. If I adjust the P and D I can completely smooth out the ripples after the spike, but the initial spike is still there, no matter how high or low I set the P. Any idea what would cause that?

when it comes to yaw, is it normal on a 5" for it to shoot up into the air when yawing at 0 throttle? i mean it makes sense but its kinda annoying haha. inverted yaw spins suck me down

If I’m running default PID with bidirectional dshot 600 do I still set pidsum limits to 1000 using CLI and turn off Dmin?
When you say default do you mean just turn on bidirectional dshot still set pidsum limits to 1000 using CLI and turn off Dmin?

Chris, how does an advanced RC link like ELRS or Ghost interact with stick response gain and feed forward? For example, with ELRS @ 500hz I have my ff_sp_interpolate = on and my smoothing factor set to 40. On stock pids and min filter sliders the quad is very locked in and I feel very little latency in the controls. Does stick response gain still need to be increased in this instance?

Hi Chris, thank you for this great video. I would like to ask you a thing about a common problem i'm having on my 5" quads. When doing a flip or a roll I noticed that, during the initial acceleration at full stick deflection, my gyro is very close to the setpoint  but, during the braking phase, when the quad opposes the inertial rotation to stabilize in horizontal position, my motors saturates/clips for 10/20 ms introducing a huge latency until the motors desaturates and the gyro will be able again to follow the setpoint. The most annoying aspect is that during the saturation of the motors I can see a "bump" on the opposite axis.  This occurs even with relatively low P-term value and no FeedForward. Which parameter should I check for this kind of problem ?

Chris I'm curious about how hot a motor can be after a flight and still be safe?  On your AOS5 are your motors cold or are they pretty warm but still able to keep your fingers on them without discomfort?  I'd really like to know an exact temp (i.e. 150F for example) for what is a safe temp.

How do you move the step response graph if it’s under or above “1” ?

When you're looking at the pid tool box, is it important that the line stay on the 0 mark. Mine is a bit above but it's a straight line.

Making arms longer than they need to be is not great from a vibration standpoint so I would need to see significant evidence of improvement to recommend that approach.

If you don't want to roll back, follow through the filter and PID tuning videos and you'll have it flying great in no time 😁

Just go carefully and start at step 1 in the filters video.

I certainly hope that the cross-fade filters allow those types of gains on all quads. It'll make them fly amazing! Regardless a better mechanical starting point will always allow for better performance given the same software.

That may be I term overshoot. If you have low P and high I (like in that video) it's the I term creating the overshoot not P term. That's why P makes it better. You would never have that issue unless you reduced P very low.

I have a tuning guide for 4.3 on my channel now. 👍

You use the stick response gain slider.

How big is your quad?

Go back to 17:00 and watch Step 5 again.  A bad response is anything that isn't the red line. Thanks!

Ah!  Excellent, thanks Chris.  Clearly I’m going to have to watch this several times to absorb it all!  Thanks for doing this.  I’m new to the hobby, and love the depth provided by the complexity of FPV.  If it was simple I’d get bored :).  I appreciate the tutorials!  My first Nazgul5 logs are so noisy - nothing close to what you’re showing.  <Going back to step 1>…

Yeah no worries 🤠

 @ChrisRosser  Cheers mate!

I cover Dmin in more detail in my fine tuning video. I do not recommend to turn it on for the initial tuning covered in this video.

I may do Emuflight, and maybe KISS but FalcoX's behaviour has really ticked me off recently....

 @ChrisRosser  🤭🤭,, emu will be great,,,but now i happy with betaflight & im still using the setting as in your tunning video,,thank you sir for everthings,,and god bless u sir,,.amien.,always waiting your next content🙏

Too much FF. Try adjusting stick response gain to 0.5 before starting.

Yes that's normal. You have to spin up two props to yaw. Using light pitch props helps.

If you're running default PIDS it won't make any difference. Only matters once you have tuned PIDs to the limit.

Yes. We'll talk about rates in another video. But setpoint tracking needs lots of feedforward regardless of your control link.

Hi Alessandro. If your motors have saturated at 100% you have found the mechanical limit of your setup. No way to improve with tuning. The only way to improve performance is to reduce moment of inertia or increase motor size.

 @ChrisRosser  It's soo strange. My frame is a Bando Killer V2 with an Orca Cam. In order to avoid overshoots my P/D slider sets to position 1.1 or 1.2. With P-terms around 50 and D-terms around 35, the condition is enough to get frequent saturations (most of the times I made rolls/flips) even without any FF added.

If you can hold the motor for as long as you want its definitely less than 60C (based on ISO60601 skin contact temperatures) and that's fine. On my AOS 5 the motors only get very slightly warm even with no dynamic notch and D gains of 55.

If it's just a little under on yaw that's usually Ok. If it's very under on roll of pitch I would take a few more logs and double check because that would be very strange.

 @ChrisRosser  about 0.87 on roll and yaw (with some oscillations) playing with the sliders only, i guess it needs some fine tuning on each axis.

If its straight its OK.

What tuning fitst ? First filter  then D gain then P, D ?  sorry my english is not the best

Hi, there.  my MOTOR 1 is spinning as normal but with Errors. The more throttle I push, the bigger Error code appears. It is a fresh build, can it be a hardware issue?

Does a windy day effect the results?

Hi Chris.
Do you think this method of tuning is appropriate for 1s 3inch toothpicks? (babytooth from kababfpv)
I followed this without black-box, unfortunately. The babytooth seems to fly ok with the filter settings you suggested for clean builds. I did manage to get some amazing flight feel following this guide but cant seem to tune out oscillations in snap movements. Snap yawing also causes wobbling outside of the yaw axis too and motor 3 seems to dip. This issue does not occur on kababfpv's suggested pids though

500 likes, 1 dislike..........There is always one hater, lol

Hey Chris,
Are the following pidsum commands just for tuning? and afterwards you return them to defaults. 
set pidsum_limit = 1000
set pidsum_limit_yaw = 1000

Thank you so much. Just one question; how do I tune feed forward? Is it just the "Stick Response Gain"- slider? And whats the difference to "feedforward transition" ? Do I have to leave that on 0?

So all but one quad has been tuned …  as I start trying to tune the PD balance and PD Gain , without moving the sliders I get the double tick on both start and end of the roll. Should my first move be : increasing the PD balance and decreasing the PD gain  until the double ticks stop?

should I set "PIDLOOP" on blackbox settings to Betaflight?

Hi Chris im a little bit to dum to understand that part of the Fpv Hobby . I could need some help to analyse the data of the flight that i recorded .When someone of your community could help me i would be insanely happy.

Hi Chris, thanks for that video. Did it today with my laptop, 10 packs and 2 hours. Found it hard to find the correct max d gain. The master slider was on 2 and no wired behaivior and no hot motors. But went the whole process and it is flying realy better than ever. But now i m uncertain if i went to high and maybe it could fly better with a lower master slider. Any hints what i should look for? All blackbox logs are still available.

Hello, I'm new for drone, can i know what a master200.bbl at 24.52

how to tune feed forward - turn it way down cuz it feels like crap on slow freestyle moves

will this methodology work on any sized quad?

You don’t tell us what PID values to start with. Also on the example of the PID toolbox you only showed us 3 examples of perfectly tuned pids. Why not show what problematic PIDS would look like in that tool? I want to know how to set the PIDS in order numerically. Where do we start with the sliders? The video just assumes the PID values are set already. Do you start with the stock beta flight settings? Thanks

That's a great explanation. I'm going to pay much more attention to making a clean build now since that's the start (and most important) part of the process.

One question though: how will the tuning process be different for racing (if at all)?

Racing doesn't have many flips and rolls, but these are critical manoeuvres for the tuning flights that you described in the filtering video.

Hi, I haven't got a blackbox on my quad. It is a 6 inch (BlackOpal Ultra Light) the one that is able to stay in the air for 55 minutes. I'm having some weird vibrations sounds - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UG3tKmGH3Bo  I changed props, but the vibrations are the same in mid to high throttle. Any idea what slider to move [P, D or I]?

Yep filter video first, then this video, then rates video 👍

It is likely to be a hardware issue. Check the soldering and wiring.

Of the blackbox logging that is..sorry lol

Tuning without balckbox is very tricky. Filter settings should be OK if you're using my recommended settings. As for PIDs I would start with kababs recommended. If you want to go more agressive just multiply all values by 1.1. That will keep the ratios the same. If that is good multiply all by 1.1 and keep repeating until you see osciallations then step back.

Probably just testing that the dislike button works on the video. You need to be sure of these things 🤣

 @ChrisRosser  😆😆😆

Nope. Leave them both at 1000 👍

Leave transition on 0. I cover tuning FF more in the fine tuning video but usually I start by setting FF equal to the master slider.

 @ChrisRosser  Thanks i got it now. Was confused cause i couldnt find my pd balance...no matter what i always had overshoot. Until i found out that somehow my (stock!) FF was way to high. Lesson learned for next time: turn the FF slider to minimum before tuning.

Yes that's a good approach. Then increase Master to find the max D gain.

 @ChrisRosser  I’m tuning Betaflight 4.3 so there is Mater slider anymore. Is there any work around where this is concerned?

For blackbox mode I usually use Gyro_scaled

​ @ChrisRosser  also for the "PIDToolBox" logs?

My discord server is a good place to get tuning advice. Or UAVtech discord server.

 @ChrisRosser  OK thank you very much.

If you got to 2.0 with no hot motors then that's great. Did you follow the filter tuning video too? If so you should be good to go.

 @ChrisRosser  Hi Chris, i m already feeling confident tuning my qwad after your tutorials. Will you also make this series for Betaflight 4.3?

Have a watch of my filter video. It is the first step before this video.

 @ChrisRosser  Okay tq sir

 @ChrisRosser  Can you give me a link that video sir, I'm can't found it

If you have an issue with feel that should really be addressed with rates and RC smoothing. Detuning your PIDs is only going to create other issues.

This will change in BF 4.3

 @TimeFadesMemoryLasts  nice ill give it a try, although i cant imagine ill like it....  i have over 600 hours in sims , so feed forward wobble has always been super noticable to me, heck i usually fly with lower I as well but im a fan of heavier crafts... would rather have latency than improper handling

Absolutely from 1s Micros to X8 cinelifters!

 @ChrisRosser  dude this 7" is kicking my ass 😭

Yep we start with stock BF settings for PIDs and all sliders at 1.0. you sound like the kind of pilot who will appreciate my fine tuning video coming soon!

 @ChrisRosser  absolutely, this was a great video but knowing that you start with beta flight stock makes it all make sense now. So this is specific to beta flight. I’m new to tuning. Thanks for the content!

Tuning is the same process for any quad no matter what you use it for. The PID controller is the same in all cases and the goal of tracking setpoint cleanly is suitable for racing and freestyle.

That sounds like bad frame resonance to me which is to be expected on a large ultralight frame. Without blackbox there isn't much I can suggest. I doubt that the issue can be solved in the PIDs.

