priceless video,  Janos,  thanks

For my 2-way Lancelot speaker, I compared a 2nd order filter with a 1st order + Zobel for the Altec 414. Both yielded nearly the same freq. response. However, whereas with the 2nd order crossover the sound signature of the capacitor was clearly audible, with the Zobel setup that effect was not directly noticeable which surprised me.

Why isnt zobel network included in speakers? Since we would expect a flat impedance curve visible to the outside.

A good amp is important. But what are the criterias??

Hallo Janos, 
I'm driving my fullrange Quad electrostatic speakers with Spectral (high-frequency) amplifier. ( dma 150 ) . 

The flattening out impedantie effect: does that also applies to my set, or in other words: is Zobel doing good to the sound?

otl monos and stirling gr tannoy, i sente to buy hms biwiring perfect match, upgrading the crossover will mean to send them very far from home, this is another topic.

Hi, I'd love to read the Audionote white paper. Could you please provide a link? Thanks.

You don't need a zobel network necessarily you need a resistor network to stabilise it's impedance so it doesn't drop too low. So it gives you a steady impedance across the speaker range whatever that is. you want it to be. You need to use non-inductive resistance metal film. There's no loss of information if it's done correctly. It's got nothing to do with distortion from your amplifier increase damping factor there's a better load for the amplifier yes reduces  distortion further if you're driving it hard. something wrong if you're hearing distortion what you're saying that's more of a power issue

Makes sense, a Zobel is a milder device than an extra order for the crossover.

Answer coming out in a few minutes: https://youtu.be/rTfaH0ydhTE

Excellent question, we should dive into that! 👍👍

Good luck with the upgrade!

I have linked to this article in one of my previous videos. However, looked at ANs website, and they did reorganization, it took me quite a while to find it. Apparently they took off the old paper, and redid their tests. I have not read this one yet, but here's the link: AN articles page: https://www.audionote.co.uk/articles
This paper in question: https://www.audionote.co.uk/_files/ugd/3e7c3b_afaac490363a4e3788cf9b1b4c8790ed.pdf

 @realworldaudio  thank you

My long winded follow up is coming up in a few minutes: https://youtu.be/rTfaH0ydhTE

I agree here. Stabilize it with the proper resistor network so through impedance stays up constant as it can

 @labalo5  yeah you don't want it dropping so find its  lowest point and make an average

