Honestly, this is such a great video on filters. It's the best one I've seen so far that explains things so clearly. Thank you again for all the effort you put into your videos.  This channel needs more exposure, it's by far the most informative electronics channel on Youtube. I love the practical examples, its makes things so much easier to understand. Please keep them coming.

What an epiphany! Absolutely obvious that all transmissions would be mixed together but never saw them that way. Thank you, filters make much more sense now. Thank you

You made RLC, Frequency response & Fourier analysis like a chocolate ❤.

Wow.. you are the best🔥🔥 nobody has ever made a detailed video on rlc filters ever.. keep it up sir🙌♥️🔥

Very nice presentation on RLC FILTER CIRCUIT ! 😊💞💞👍👍

Thank you brother again this is so great I appreciate all the help you give us in understanding of these somewhat complex topics in a very easy to understand manner

Hello.  Engineer Nazerian, I am happy to see you succeed.❤

Incredible, unparalleled explanation! Thank you!

That was a lot of info. 😂 but I think I have a much better understanding of how RLC filters work. Fantastic explanation.

Great thanks for your video. This one finally made me understand the missing part of the signals. Thanks

Now I got why we have frequency response experiment in course

Hats off, really really good job. Thanks for such a nice video. I did not escape a single second of it.

Nice presentation. I haven't done electronics since high school. Your work is refreshing and reminding me , thank you. Now that I'm retired I can return to the Amateur Radio hobby.

Very comprehensive and understandable video. Thank you wizard!❤

Great presentation

Thank you. an ultimate guide to RLC filters in just 40 minutes. The best part is practical circuits and experiments that elaborate the subjects. Thank you so much.

never heard bout recitifier diode...or diode in general

Your Video answered all my questions I had on filters and Radio signals, other signals and the noise! Thx!

sir ,you are always my best guide towards electronics 🤩🤩

Amazing video, love from India. I am in 3rd year of ECE

Wow, thank you! Your warm comment encouraged me. I am so happy for having you ❤️❤️, cheers 🍻

I appreciate you taking the time to share your thoughts. Thank you for your comment ❤️

Glad you think so, cheers 🍻

Glad you think so,  keep watching ❤️❤️

You're welcome! So glad you liked the presentation. 👍

Thank you for the sweet €5 Super Thanks contribution!❤️❤️

Hey, thanks❤️

Glad you enjoyed it! Cheers 🍻

Your welcome ☺️

Awesome.
Your positive feedback made my day!

Thank you my friend. Your kind comment is a great source of motivation.
I'm grateful to have such an awesome audience!❤️❤️❤️

Cool, it is all my pleasure 😃

Glad you enjoyed it! Keep watching 😊

Glad you found the video helpful, yeah practical example are like lanterns in darkness 👍

I'm glad you found the content helpful!
Your positive energy is much appreciated.

Wow, thanks. I'm honored by your kind words.
I appreciate the positive vibes you bring to the channel.

Best of luck! My Indian friend

the video was fantastic. last week i made an EKG meter, using op amps to make the differential amp, the band stop filter, and the low pass filter, then displaying my heart wave form on my scope. now im trying to make the filters using passive components. this vid was invaluable.

appreciate the video that explains a lot of information in a very basic way!!!!! 🤩

Fantastic video! It really cleared up how capacitors and inductors function in these filters. The resistor's purpose is still a little confusing to me, but I'm way better off than before. Thanks!

I love your teaching style sir.

thanks for this awsome video.i enjoyed watching each second

Very informative. I appriciate this video.

An excellent and understandable  discussion of a topic that often confuses me. Thanks.

Has been waiting for your new video..appreciate it.. thanks!

Please continue to do more videos in Electronics.. Nice explanation.. keep it up

This was such a great video! I like the way You present the topics using real devices and components, graphing the results on a printed grid is also very helpful in visualising the different dependencies. I discovered your channel just recently...subscribed after the first video I watched, which was about diode applications (great series by the way!). Keep up the good job 👍 If You're considering making a "project series" in which You'd show how to come up with an idea, design it, implement and debug, I'd be one of the first to sign-up. I'm thinking of a paid series, of course ;) I think You're a very gifted educator. Kindest regards!

Very well put together video. Well though trough. And a good explanation. This video is more worth then hours of EE study. As a maker of YT videos myself, my compliments I know first hand how difficult it is to filter (pun intended) out all the information that only makes things more complicated. Also I always like an immediate practical of theory just explained.

Just want you viewers to know this is also works for audio as bass and treble controls.

Brilliant video. Perfect blend of whiteboard theory with practical application on the breadboard & scope. All explained in a clear and entertaining way. Great work, and thank you!

Not to complicate things but how much of the differences between "real" and "ideal" components is due to phase shifts? The effects of capacitance and inductance always seem to be working against each other? And then there is resonance to further complicate designing a circuit. Thank you for your helpful insignts, appreciate the effort you invest in these videos.

Thank you, great video!

Amazing video!! Thank you so much

Great to see your passion for electronics.  And, your clear explanation plus hands on experiments make it easy to understand complex terminology.  I wish I had a professor like you in college... Maybe a career in teaching in college in your future?  Anyway, thanks for another great video.  Just now having time to catch up...

Great video. Well done... Thanks,.

Great video. Thanks 👍

you are excellent, thanks very much

Thanks for this video👏👏👏

Glad the video was helpful 😃
I appreciate your support. 
By the way, there is a video about op-amps in the channel. You need to watch it👍

Your kind words are greatly appreciated.❤️ Any thoughts on the overall direction of the channel?

Thanks for being such an awesome supporter!
Your comment put a big smile on my face.😊

Si nice of you 😊❤️

Glad you enjoyed it, keep watching!

Glad it was helpful!😃

Great to hear! Keep watching my friend ❤️

So nice of you❤️❤️❤️ keep watching

Thank you, I will

Wow, thank you for your kind words ❤️ 
Thank you for subbing and by the way, thank you for ideas and suggestions 😊

Wow, thanks! Thanks for watching and for the encouraging comment!

Glad you enjoyed it! Thank you for supporting me, cheers 🥂

Glad you think so

You're so welcome!

I am so glad you found the video helpful and informative. 
I love to teach and I will do my best for you ❤️❤️😊

Thank you for being a source of encouragement! 😊

Thank you for your kind words! Any favorite videos so far, or areas you think I can improve on?

You are very welcome!

Your welcome 😊

your videos are so good!

آقا شما عالی هستی. امیدوارم موفق باشی هر گوشه ای از این دنیا که روزگار میگذرونی. اگه خارج از ایرانی که هیچ، ولی اگه نیستی و تصمیم گرفتی خارج بشی بدون تو رو رو سرشون میزارن. زنده باشی.

I don't understand why in 14:55 a capacitor makes the AC signal pass through ground instead of remaining in The Out node

Love the video. I look forward to future videos.

Thanks!

Thank you!

Thank you very much، Master. ❤😊

Again a great video

This is great! Thanks 🙏

Also, please do a video on pi-filter

1 minute in...did he just say "inductors and capacitors make love" 😂 Fantastic

دمت گرم مهندس واقعا ویدیوهات فوق العادست کاش فقط زیرنویس فارسی هم بزاری ماهایی که تو گوشی نگاه میکنیم

Danke!

I wonder why you changed masterclub, but wizard is Okey, great channel ❤

Love from pakistan

Plz explain Eprom 8 pin ic widely. Soon as soon plz

I need a one  video on Crystal oscillator and Rtc module working and role is oscillator in RTC module

Thank you soo much you explain the argument in very simple way. I want to ask if you can make a video where you make filter with   operational amplifier . And at the end of the video you talk about use oscilloscope for understand the noise you want cut off can you do a video on this argument too because is very interesting .
Thank you soo much

Excellent demo and very educational bravo! 
How would you filter out or separate an exact overlapping signal?

dear sir
please how to get quasi sine wave (inductive crankshaft signal for automobile -12V to 12V ) from square wave i.e  crankshaft signal (hall effect) varing from 0  to +5 VOLT  using for exemple a low pass filter 
note: the frequency range is  : 500 HZ TO 30KHZ
THANKS SIR

Very good teaching, very good teacher. Did you study electronics or physics, or you are an autodidact?

Glad you like them!😊

Thank you dude, glad you think so ❤️❤️❤️

Awesome! Thank you! More to come 👍

Wow, thank you Husain😍. Thank you for the generous 250 AED contribution! Much appreciated!

Thank you for the sweet €5 Super Thanks contribution!❤️❤️❤️

Hi dude, thank you

Thanks again!

You are great dude❤️

Good suggestion,  thanks 👍

Actually they make love at resonant frequency 🤪

I appreciate your support more than words can express. Thank you for your suggestion,  noted!

Big appreciation for the €2.5 Super Thanks! You're awesome!❤️

There was a problem with myMCN on my previous channel. Please keep subscribing my old channel ❤️❤️❤️

Great suggestion. Noted

I will consider your suggestion 👍

Thank you for watching and thank you for your suggestion. I will consider your suggestion

Thank you. If frequency of overlapping signals is different, then you just need to use filters to separate them, but if the frequency of those signals are close,  then you can't separate them easily

 @elewizard understood thank you!

Originally I am an AI engineer 🙃

💖💖💖💖

👍

👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏

My confusion is with signals, whats a signal? is it electricity?  so frequency is just how fast electrons are moving?  Signals travel in air,  electricty travels in air?  Whats AC got to do with it?  Whats going on?  (ill continue watching)

خوب من دلیل پست انگلیسی گذاشتن رو فهمیدم
خدا قوت

Please, why do my inductors not inductorate?  Current zips through with zero delay.  DC, that is.

Thanks!

Thanks!

❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️

❤️❤️❤️

👍👍👍

Thank you for being my audience, keep watching!

I have no idea. I guess something is wrong with your instruments

 @elewizard  There should be delay, right?  How many millihenries would you need for, say, 100ms delay in turn on time of an LED?

Hi peter, big appreciation for the £10 Super Thanks! You're awesome!❤️

Your $5 Super Thanks just made my day brighter – thank you! ❤️❤️❤️

