Great video! 25W is more than enough for desktop speakers even for small room.

Thank you. Informative as always!

One more thing, I received the chips directly from National semiconductor when they were in business so it will be interesting to see if the (old chinese) stock available now will measure up.....

Excellent observations ❤

Johnaudiotech did many videos on this kit, it was really informative, 

Those kits sometimes comes with original LM1875T ICs but most often fake found in them.

Well review! 💜

9:40.  I believe that the reading was almost exactly 11 volts for the genuine chip at 4 ohms, which is 30.25 watts rather than 36.  The scope agreed, though the reading would likely increase slightly as you scrolled more waveforms into view.

Those circuit kits are cheap and have a decent layout such that they are a good source for PCBs even if the chips are counterfeit, but most of us don't want to support companies that sell fake chips.  Even the fakes produce a decent 8-ohm amp audio circuit for the price, but we'd prefer higher-quality parts.  

The dual-rail power supply and heat sinking are obviously the primary investments with these amps, so folks that just want a cheap amp would be better off with a stereo class D board and a wall wart.  If they're already building a dual-rail supply, they can certainly afford genuine chips and nice components, so these ultra-cheap class AB chips amps are a strange commodity to me.

I like these amp chips, but why is there a market for $5 single-channel kits when a complete amp is going to cost many times more?  I suspect that a lot of these are sold to people that never build them into amplifiers :(.

Thank you for featuring this interesting kit.  I've put together a few of these for various rooms around the house and they are very good for the price, especially the PCB.  Never seen any of these kits come with original chips so getting a genuine one is a must to run it beyond 20 watts.  For low volume close proximity use, say for small desktop speakers, the fake chip actually does not sound any different from the original, at least for the dual 18v supply I've used with it.  The fakes do not have short circuit protection at all so they immmediately go bang when shorted and when the short is removed, it sends full rail DC to the output

Like ❤

Great Video again Sir, I would like to know who actually makes these fake chips, it's not like they cost a lot in the first place, spoiling a ship for an haporth of tar springs to mind

I assembled these kit & I got around 8 watts @ 4 ohms load while powering up with a 18 Volt 2 Ampere transformer whose peak dc output is 28 volts & I used the voltage divider circuit to convert into split suppy that I learnt from John audio tech video but the voltage was pulled down to 20 volts while delivering 8 watts. I used a 3x3 inch heatsink that became slightly warm during the operation. The capacitors supplied with this kit although blew up at first place which I replaced with good ones so the components are not good quality but only due to the authentic chip & pcb the kit priced very high

dear mr beeny . I am writing to you from the other side of the world. South America. . Chile. I want to thank you for sharing your knowledge. You have helped me a lot in this time, I am grateful to you. I have reviewed all your videos, I am very happy. dear sir, could you spare some words and test for a low cost kit like class A amplifiers? Thank you again for your time. We see it from many parts of the world. a big hug and forgive my English. Greetings Serge.

Super video, thank you. Just a thought: C2 is critical, it can also affect the bass response and in my experience, can (if a low-cost electrolytic and a single supply are used) cause strange output DC (speaker damaging) behaviour! Best to use a quality, very low leakage and non-polar cap. All the best, Beamer.

Pity it's almost impossible to get genuine lm 1875, 3886, various different output transistors - all out of stock and in a production backlog. Even Elna Silmic II capacitors are being discontinued. I started diy audio maybe 6 years ago and took it for granted things like bc560 etc would be available for years to come.

I was wondering how you got those two SMPS's to play nicely together?

Hi Mike! Good to see you back in action! As i mentioned before, i have assembled amps using the LM3886, and the TDA7294. Yes, i would never trust Chinese chips. The majority are fake.

The LM3886, i would say sounded "good", but the TDA7294...i was pleasantly s
urprised. It sounds wonderful: virtually no distortion, with surprising bass response. I cant think of a better value, considering the minimal cost.

Just out of interest I wonder how the Quads would test if you used genuine semiconductors from a reputable dealer ?

Hey Michael, have you aver worked with the LM3875? (obsolete) . I think it would be a better option than the LM3886 because of it's noise figure. Any thoughts?

Hi Mike,
Chinese fakes are a big problem, I blame the big chip manufacturers who sell off their reject chips cheaply because they fuel the fake industry. I am looking to build a LM 3886 amp but searching  element 14, digikey,Mouser etc the LM 3886 chip is not available and has a waiting list of months. So if I go ahead with this project I will be taking pot luck if I get a good chip or fake .The reason I would like to build LM 3886 amp is that I saw a review of the Cambridge Audio AXA 35 amp by The British Audiophile, which uses the LM 3886 chip and I am looking for a warm richer amp to tame my Klisph PM 160 speakers. Being a poor pensioner like yourself, I can't afford the Cambridge Audio amp. In your opinion of all the amps You have build, could you reccomend  a warm rich amp or would the LM 1875 be a good sub to the LM 3886.  I am using the 12 watt valve amp  that You built, it is ok but it doesn't have the gain  for my fiio music player. Thanks for any help and keep up the good work.
Ken Mitchell.

Fakes again 🙂I had bought several of these folling Johnaudiotechs positive review of the boards. The chips Johnaudiotech and I got, however, look identical to your real chips. I guess they ran out of the real ones and, following tradition, just swapped them for fake ones.

I also watch Johns video's, he might even watch one or two of mine!!

 @MichaelBeeny  yeah I often find your comments on 2-3 different channels at least once in month or too.
I really like your YouTube channel and I really love johnaudiotech YouTube channel, 
I learned alot from both of you. 

I also bought some Original LM1875T ICs for myself around 44pcs , and build LM1875T 6channel amplifier 
I got so many LM1875T because I bought them local audio stuff store, he had older stocks of LM1875T ICs with white print, they are made in Malaysia 
I also bought some LM3886TF ICs and build a Stereo amplifier with it.

 @MichaelBeeny  I recently bought some transistors like 
NJW0281G NJW0302G 30pairs
2SC5200 2SA1943 15pairs 
2SC5198 2SA1941 50pairs 
C5171 A1930 15pairs
C4382 A1668 16pairs
C4793 A1837  50pairs 
Mosfet devices 
IRFP240/IRFP9240 pairs 
AND many different types of TO-92 transistors about 4K in different parts numbers .

I really love audio amplifier stuff and I plan to build my own Schematic some day in future  

Until then I'm learning about it from many sources, like you and johnaudiotech and XrayTonb YouTube channel ,he is like a Guru to me.
Johnaudiotech also a Guru to me.

 @jim9930  recommend some to me.
I have already subscribed to many but still looking for good YouTube channels, like EEVBLOG, XRAYTONYB, johnaudiotech, and Kiss Analog , 
Language is not a problem with me, as long as Youtuber provide the subtitles otherwise English is best language, I like to watch long videos like more than 20 minutes or something 1hour longer, just like XRAYTONYB published .

 @VIPINSAINI_20  My videos take a lot of editing!! I make lots of errors and I try to get the image as good as possible. I often film 2 hours of video and edit down to 10/20 minuets. More skill in editing than technical content! lol. Most of all, I really appreciate my viewers and people that take time to write comments here. When that stops, so will I. The few pennies I make does not even pay for the parts I use.

 @jim9930  Very true Jim, I've a few good people just like that.

A fair point Marvin. I just pointed out these details so people can make the choice, like your  self depending on the application.

As you may have seen in my video with genuine chips the performance is really quite good. I'm not sure of your power supply. Your filter electrolytics blowing up would tend to suggest something is wrong. I used all original parts except the chips and everything is good. Genuine chips are not cheap but fake chips are cheap for a reason. You NEVER really know what you might get.

Hi Sergio, firstly thank you for your kind words, it's much appreciated. Personally I'm not a class A fan. I have yet to be convinced that they offer anything more than a properly biased class AB. After all, class A is just a class AB with lots more bias. So if you bias the class AB so you have no crossover, all class A does is heat the room.
Class A can never be low cost. You will need massive heatsinks even for a relatively low power output due to the high current consumption. The power transformer will also need to be big because it will need to supply a high current all the time. This places more demand on the rectifiers which will need extra heatsinking. Bigger and better capacitors. 
At the end of the day your amplifier will be lower powered so less dynamic range, so could end up not sounding as good. You spent more money for no improvement, but your house will be warmer !!

 @MichaelBeeny  dear mr beeny. It is really a pleasure to be able to read your comment, thank you very much for answering me. I appreciate it. I look forward to your other videos. you are very kind. thanks for those words about the class a amplifier. but personally I am a stubborn person hahahahaha. I want to have one even though I know they are very inefficient. In the same way, all the videos that you have made available have helped me a lot. once again dear sir, thank you... a big hug from the other side of the world. sergio

Non-polar are not a favourite of mine, they tend to have a high ESR over standard electrolytes. The cost of these kits probably wont justify the cost. I've yet to do a detailed listening test in my listening room to form a real conclusion. I have quite a few projects on right now and only 2 ears.

 @MichaelBeeny  Sorry, I meant polypropylene, polyester etc., - not non-polar electrolytics (also not valued by me). I like your YT channel, and it's great that we have 2 of most things - if 1 fails, at least we've got a spare ;)

Hi Peter, here in NZ I received mine from Farnel, however these are getting a little expensive these days. As you have seen here, quite a difference in performance. I actually like it. When you see the silly little PCB on the heatsink, I cannot believe the sound quality that comes out of it.

The main thing is both power supplies outputs are floating, not connected to ground or you will simply short one of the power supplies.
Power supply one, the +ve  rail becomes the plus voltage. The negative is connected to the second power supply + supply, this becomes your center tap or 0 volts. The -ve  output on number 2 power supply becomes the real - ve rail.
The voltages on both power supplies are made the same. Use your test meter to confirm your connections are correct. Works a treat. Make sure you power up both supplies at the same time.
Hope this makes sense, easy to do but quite hard to explain.

You can do this with 2 identical linear supplies too. Join 0v reference on one to the positive of the other (thats your ground), and use the remaining positive and what was the 0v of the other for +&- respectively. Nelson Pass used this design on some PSU for his amps. It reduces any effect of differences between the secondary coils as they get rectified and filtered before they are connected.

 @jim9930  thats why i only buy chips from a reputable source. I ve had 3886's blow up on power up!

Good morning Bill, good to hear from you again. From your comments it looks like another trip to Jaycar to get a few 7294s.. I really need ANOTHER amplifier lol

 @MichaelBeeny  hi Mike! Yes i would like to see that build. I had originally ordered a pair of tiny pcbs, but they looked short on some items. I subsequently bought a board which has both channels in 1. I will send a pic later. I dont think you will be disappointed!

It's been a long time since I've tested a real Quad 405. If I recall, they never measured that well from the start.

I did not find any noise from the speaker at all. True on paper the 3875 is specked with lower noise, but if you cannot hear it anyway who cares. Not tried the 3875, as they are obsolete, unless you can get new old stock, bound to the fakes.

Hi Ken, So sorry to hear you have Klisph speakers but we wont go in that direction. If the only other issue you have is lack of gain on the amplifier why not just add a simple pre amp? 5532 for example. Regarding the 3886 I have looked, for these here in NZ. Farnell is quoting 2 years delivery. I think the ones from China must be fakes. I'm surprised you find the valve amplifier too bright? That's what put me off it, I found it dull and lacking dynamic range. Well it is a valve amp after all. Most of your issues might be the speakers. Along with BOSE I find Klisph my least favourite speakers EVER (so far) Try one of the British speakers, might suit you better. Good luck, let know what you do.

I would not stand for that Marcel, getting a genuine chip when you expect a fake one, it's not right!! Everyone will expect the same in future.

 @MichaelBeeny  Haha, you are right. We need some certainties in life!

Sorry about your health.  Nearly all audio chips from China are fake.  They have MUCH smaller output transistors on the die.

When using a real chip these little amplifiers really do sound good.

 @MichaelBeeny   YEP! :), ...and even the fakes at lower power levels and attention paid to load stability (as you so profoundly showed at 4 ohm) are actually good for most applications, ...and the price, ...far out!!  Some do have lower frequency response at the high end, but still sound good. :)
The general rule of most things from China is buy double the power rating, LEDs, audio amps, mosfets, bjts etc. etc. and you will be ok because they will still be hugely cheaper.

