iKZ05QIN8mc
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iKZ05QIN8mc
Unknown Category
Greetings everyone and welcome back to the bench. This is your weekly dose of AudioTech. Okay, on the bench today we have two audio amplifier ICs, the LM1875 and the TDA2050. My all-time favorite audio ICs. Really love these things. Should be obvious. I've done videos on these before, but I want to do an in-depth comparison of these to see which one stands on top. Well, let's start off that they're both pretty good, but there are some differences in them, and that's what we're going to take a look at today. But first of all, why do I like these chips so much? Well, they're simple 5-pin T0220 type packages. They don't require a lot of extra components to make a nice little amplifier. You know, there's no mute or standby pins that require extra components. And you know, on some of the chips with the mute and standby, you have to use Zener diodes that hold the voltage in a certain range so the chip stays in play mode. Like the TDA7264 has that type of arrangement. It's kind of annoying. But with these, there's no mute or standby pin to worry about. They're designed to have very good audio quality, low distortion, no stability issues. And with some of these chips, I've seen in the step response tests, which we'll look at today, that some of them did oscillate. They were easier to make oscillate. And, well, I still have to test the TDA2050, but the LM1875 had no problems in that test. Like I said, I do have to test this TDA2050, and we'll check that out today. You can set them up for single supply or dual supply operation. In my experience, they're reliable. You know, my main listening amp has the TDA2050 in it, and it's on constantly for 10 years straight, and no problems with it. I never turn it off. So as long as you use a good layout and big enough heatsink, it'll be just fine. Now these are what I call the 20 watt class amplifier ICs. I mean, you can squeak more power out of them. In one of my videos with the LM1875, I was able to get 40 watts, actually a little over 40 watts out of it. But that was running it at its maximum supply voltage, which I would normally not do. But still, yeah, you can get 25, 30 watts out of these things. Okay, so I have first off the LM1875 here on these little boards. I talked about these kits before. Have a really nice, well laid out board. Nice ground layout here. You got the ceramic caps, bypass caps for the power supply. We're pretty much right at the pins of the chip. And they go right into the ground plane here. And yeah, these are just excellent boards. And because the TDA2050 has the same pin out, I can use it on the same board. Though I will have to change the Bougereau cell components because they require a different value. We'll take a look at that as well. I'm going to start out doing a power test. I'll measure it at three different voltages. If you want a more comprehensive power test results, well, a few years ago, I did a test of the LM1875. I tested it at a bunch of different load resistances and supply voltages. But I'm just going to do three different ones here to compare the two chips. As always, I have my signal source going into the preamp so I can control the level. That goes into the amplifier here. Non-inductive 4 ohm load on the output. And the power supply is hooked up. I have these reservoir capacitors. You know, they're connected here close to the chip. And the power supply is set up. And we'll run a few power tests. I'm actually going to start out at plus or minus 12 volts. So we'll dial that in. And what I'll do here, I'll take one measurement on camera and then I'll do the rest off camera to save time. Okay, power measurement time. So we can dial out the clipping there. Right about there. And I have to put more waveforms on the screen to get an accurate measurement. See, it always stays the same. But if I don't have enough waveforms, you get a different number here. You get a higher number. So you get the wrong information. Okay. So we have 6.61 volts RMS squared divided by 4 ohms. So 10.9 watts. That's plus or minus 12 volts. Okay, power test. 7.18 volts RMS. By that by 4 is 12.8. Actually, 12.9. The 1875 was doing 10.9. And this one is doing 12.9. So it's delivering a little more power than the LM1875 at the same supply voltage. But I'll run through some more supply voltages and take some more measurements here and see how it stacks up at the end. Okay, so now I'm looking at a condition called rail sticking. That's when you send the amplifier into clipping. And you'll notice that it wants to stay stuck to the rail a little bit. You can see a little notch there on the top and bottom, especially on the bottom. See how it's sticking to the rail a little bit. So I'm using a 10 kilohertz signal. So we can see that clearly. And with the LM1875, you can see that there is a little bit of rail sticking. That's because the transistors don't want to come out of saturation or well, at least clipping. What that can do is when you do clip, that can make the clipping sound a little bit more harsh. So the less you see it, the better. And we are running at 4 ohm load, so it's going to be harder for the amplifier not to do that with the lower impedance load. Okay, let's check rail sticking. This is 10 kilohertz with the 4 ohm load TDA 2050. Oh yeah, pretty bad. Look at that rail sticking. Much worse than the LM1875. So I'll stop that so I can turn off the amplifier. So they might be optimizing the chip to give more output. But whenever you do stuff like that, you might be giving up something like stability or, you know, something like this rail sticking. And it's pretty bad here. And we have Snickers here. I'm going to pass through here. I don't know where he's going. I think he's going to lay in the corner there. Yeah, whatever. What you're going to do? Oh, grab the camera here. He's going to knock the camera over. He's going out. Okay, I think we're safe now. Okay, now I'm going to do a frequency response test. In a way, it's kind of a pointless test, because it really depends on the external component values that you use. If I don't run the test, people will complain about it. So anyway, we'll go ahead and run it. So we're at one kilohertz at four volts. Normally, you test the amp at around one watt, but I'm testing four watts with the four ohm load. We'll see what the frequency response turns out to be. I'm on the Fieldtech function generator here. Okay, I'm at 20 hertz, and it's still completely flat. Let's take it down until it starts to roll off. Okay, it's starting to roll off. We're at eight hertz. Okay, let's go up. That's three hertz. Right there, we're about three dB down, and that's four hertz. I would say that's, uh, for audio purposes, that's more than good enough. Okay, we're at 20 kilohertz, and of course, it's flat. Like I say, just to make people happy, we'll go higher. Okay, that's 70. 70 kilohertz. Starting to roll off a little bit. 100 kilohertz. Ever so slightly off, but I mean, it's flat. This amp is completely flat, way beyond the audio spectrum. Okay, we're going to do another test. What test is this? Ah, we're going to do a frequency sweep here, using the ol' field tech. So we're at, again, we're at this Graticule, upper and lower is zero dB. So we'll turn this thing down. Again, probably a pointless test. These are going to be flat throughout the frequency response here. Okay, that's 20 hertz, and you know, it's pretty flat. It's still there. That's 10. It's just like the LM 1875. It has the same capacitor values on the input and the feedback. So you're going to see the exact same result. So we'll go ahead and sweep this up to 20 kilohertz. Turn that off a second so I can get this set. Well, we're there already. 25! Crink it up. Crink it up to something crazy. Yeah, it's flat. I'm not a monkey with it anymore. So now I'm going to do step response tests. I have this microcontroller programmed to give me a 10 kilohertz square wave. The reason I'm using that, it's the fastest square wave or the cleanest square wave I can produce here on my bench. So yeah, the microcontroller does that. It goes into the input. And I had to rig up a little thing for the scope. Set the probe to 10, or yeah, 10 times. And I'm plugged into here. Problem is, if I scope at the load, I get a very small ring. You know, it's on the scope. It's only, you know, like a couple pixels tall on the scope screen there. But when I set this up, it's a lot better. It'd be better to hold it here, but it's kind of inconvenient. So I'm going to rig this little connection up here, and it seems to work okay. Okay, we're looking at the square wave here. We have the 4 ohm load and a little bit of undershoot. That could be from the microcontroller. But it's a pretty nice looking square wave. I'm going to magnify it a little bit. I have to test this at different signal levels. The idea is to put a capacitance across the output, a pure capacitance, and see how the amplifier handles it. If it rings or oscillates. Of course, it's going to ring somewhat. It's just natural. But as long as it doesn't break out into an oscillation, we're okay. Or, you know, excessive ringing as well. So let's get on with it here. Okay, we'll start with a 10 nanofarad cap across the output. And I'm not really seeing anything. I probably should turn this up the other way. See, there's clipping. I'm going to get into clipping. You can get a little bit of a wiggle there. But that's not really caused by the capacitance. Because I take it out. It's still there. So I'll turn that down between tests so I'm not dissipating excessive power. Next, I'll plug in this 0.1 microfarad or 100 nanofarads. See, that's causing a little bit of an overshoot on the negative side. And that's a little little bit of a ring. Very, very light. Let's unplug that. See, it goes away when I take it out. So let's see if I can zoom in on that a bit. Examine that. See, that's why you have to test at different levels. Because see, it's not doing it there. It might be an oscillation, considered oscillation, because it goes on long enough. But just not sure it's enough to worry about. It could be an inductance thing too. Let me touch it right at the output terminal. Yeah, it's still there. It's not really breaking out into an oscillation continuously. Okay, step response test with a 220 nanofarad. Yeah, that's somewhat bothersome. I'm seeing this oscillation here on the bottom rail. Note they say, thou shall scope the supply rails. See if that appears there. If it does, we're having filtering issues of the supply rail. So let's see what it looks like. And it's not too bad, but I am seeing that. It's glitching. You know, just my trigger thingy up there. See that's showing up on the supply rail. It's not nearly as much as what I had it set to. 100 millivolts per division. That's pretty significant. I'm being let down by my supply bypass filtering. I want to see maybe if I can fix that. Okay, I installed 0.22 microfarad ceramic caps, X7R 100 volts. Always use the X7R type. Always use at least double the supply voltage. Good reason for doing that, which I won't get into here. I'm going to see. And it did not fix it. Still there. I had to go with my intuition and what you think is right, but this time I am not correct. Apologies for the glare on the scope. That's just what it's like shooting in the daylight. I'm going to have to throw a towel or something over this window. I have blinds, but they're not good enough. Well, I'm going to install what's known as a teal network. I think the name comes from Neville Teal, of the teal and small fame, the loudspeaker people. I guess that's where that comes from. What it is, it's a coil in parallel with a resistor. It's on the output of the amplifier, and it reduces the effects of capacitive loads. Amplifiers do not like to drive capacitive loads, and that's one reason why we're oscillating with that capacitor. In real life, you would probably never see that kind of capacitance on the output. You know, pure capacitance at that level. But still, I don't think the amplifier should be oscillating. So I'm going to put this in series with the output and see if it does anything. Okay, let's see what happens here. It's still there, but it's almost diminished. It's a lot less than it was. So what I'm doing there, I have, I don't know, about 12 turns around that resistor. I'm guessing that's probably like .3 microhenries of inductance on that coil. Um, probably could use more like .7. You really shouldn't have to go above one microhenry. So yeah, I'm not going to monkey around with it anymore. I can see that this is already working. All right, for crying out loud, I'll try a bigger coil. No one would like to see that oscillation removed as much as I would, or at least diminished more. And, uh, you don't have to wrap it around the resistor. I just do that out of convenience. It makes it more compact like a single component. So, let me get this set up and see if it works or not. All right, here goes nothing. Ah, much better. This is what you want to see. Just a little bit of ring that diminishes to nothing. And yeah, that cleaned it up. A little bit of overshoot. A little bit of ring, but it's not oscillating like it was. So that took care of the problem. The value of that coil is probably closer to one microhenry. I don't think it's over that. There's a calculator where you can measure the diameter, number of turns, and the length of the coil. And it will tell you how much inductance that is. But, hey, I'm guessing it's probably around one microhenry. Step response test. This time it's with the TDA 2050. I mention that so when I'm editing the video, I get all the clips in the right place. Okay, we don't have any capacitor. We're getting a little bit of ring on the bottom. A little overshoot here, a bit of ring. So the TDA 2050 is not nearly as stable. Well, we can't say that yet. It's not unstable. I mean, some ringing doesn't mean it's unstable. Until we pop those caps in and see what happens. So let's try that. Okay, this is the 10 nanofarad. And it looks like it's not going to have any effect. No, it doesn't do anything. It's pretty much the same. So you unplug it here and there's no change. Okay, we have the 100 nanofarad end. Oh yeah, it's starting to affect it. Getting a longer ring there. Okay, now it's the 270 nano. Ooh, she broke out into some mean oscillation. Yeah, this is really... The TDA 2050 is a lot less stable than the LM1875. So let's see if that little coil... You know, it's not in the circuit right now. So I'll put it in the circuit and see if that corrects the problem. Okay, the coil is put in. Yeah, that makes quite a difference. It's not completely going unstable like it was. Yeah, it's kind of a long ring there, but it damps out. It's not totally freaking out like it was before and oscillating. That makes a big difference having that teal network in there on the output. That's why you see it in audio amplifiers. Pretty much all consumer and professional. You really need that to keep the amplifier stable. Now again, would the amplifier really see that much pure capacitance and everyday use? Probably never. But if you want to be sure your amplifier is going to be absolutely stable, you really need to have that coil there. Okay, I'm hooked up to the computer through an attenuator. So, let's see if we're going to be able to see the signal. And we're looking at the distortion. We're at 1 kilohertz. That's the fundamental right there. This is my pilot signal. It's at 4.5 kilohertz at 1%. And if you look at the total harmonic distortion plus noise, it's exactly 1% because that's that large node it's measuring. It's also seeing this, but since this node is many dB higher, that's going to dominate that reading. So, 1%. And you see the total harmonic distortion is 0.02 something. It's flipping around there. But, you know, the biggest peak here is about minus 80. Now, this is not quite at 0.00. So, it's relative to that. So, it's about minus 80 dB down at one peak. That looks like a third. So, distortion is very low. This is the TDA2050. I'm measuring here. And now I want to try an intermodulation distortion test. Okay. I'm looking at the intermodulation distortion of the TDA2050. I have an 18 kilohertz and 19 kilohertz signal. And you'll see these little sideband nodes here. Well, the highest ones are down around minus 80. And there's really nothing else showing up in the spectrum. So, you know, that's pretty low. And I'm using the high frequencies. I'm way up in the audio band because that's where solid state amplifiers will produce more distortion. But, yeah, there's nothing to worry about here. Okay. We're looking at the harmonic distortion of the LM1875. One kilohertz fundamental pilot signal. And, well, I'm a little bit surprised here. Look at the second order harmonic. That's sticking up pretty high here. 0.075. Wasn't the TDA2050 like 0.27, I think? So, this is quite a bit higher. I mean, it's still under 0.1. But it's a lot higher. I would expect it to be better than the TDA2050. But, at least with this chip, the one I'm using here, it has higher distortion. So, a little bit disappointing there. Okay. So, now we're looking at the intermodulation distortion of the LM1875. We have the 18 and 19 kilohertz signals. You can see the little side bands. But, they're below minus 80, which is very good. However, look here. We're getting nodes down here. This is one at 1 kilohertz. Remember, the TDA2050 was clean down here. I'm starting to wonder if maybe... Did I screw something up? I don't think so. I didn't really change anything. It's just that that chip is showing more distortion. Well, I swapped out this chip. It's the one that came with the kit. And, I believe them to be authentic. But, I swapped it out with one that I know is authentic that I bought from DigiKey or Mouser. And, same performance. A little bit disappointed. I thought the LM1875 would do a little better in the distortion department. Though, like I said, it's nothing bad. But, I guess I have newfound respect for the TDA2050 as far as distortion performance goes. Okay. So, let's take a look at the results here. This is the power measurements. Plus minus 12 volt supply. You can see that the TDA2050 did better as we noted earlier. But, look as we increase the supply voltage. The TDA2050 really picked up momentum. It does have a higher current. I know when you get around 20 volts, the current limit of the LM1875 starts taking effect. That's because, yeah, we are using a 4 ohm load. I wanted to challenge the chips a bit. Use a 4 ohm load. So, at 20 volts, we're looking at 29.7 versus 35.2. And, at 24, 34.2 to 43.6. So, as far as output power goes, the TDA2050 is really doing a good job there. As far as the rail sticking issue, the LM1875 did a lot better there. The TDA2050 had a lot harder rail sticking issues. That's really only an issue if you play the amp loudly and, you know, you hit clipping quite often. You'll hear that more as a harsher type of clipping sound. So, the 1875 did a lot better there. Frequency response, yeah, kind of pointless. They were all flat. They were all flat. They were all flat. They were all flat. They were all flat. They were all flat. They were all flat. They were all flat. They said, well, you know, they're all flat. They were flat. They were all flat. They were flat. The LMA1875 had a very mild oscillation. I don't think it would be a problem in normal use. Because, like I say, I doubt you would ever have a pure 270 nanoFarad capacitance across the output like that. and the 2050 became really unstable and really needed that teal network on its output again the distortion that was pretty surprising to me and that I have this written backwards hold on a second okay so yeah the 1875 had higher distortion than the TDA 2050 which was a surprise to me because if you look at the data sheet it looks like it would be opposite looks like the TDA 2050 would be the one with higher distortion but at least in my test the TDA 2050 did quite a bit better but again in both cases the distortion is so low that I don't think it would be an issue you know it's under 0.1 not an issue in either case it's just that you know just looking at these two numbers how much better the 2050 was intermodulation distortion I'll have to see if I can set up that software to actually measure it I was surprised again to see that the TDA 2050 was showing quite a bit better performance there and we're seeing a lot of nodes down around one kilohertz with those tests with the 1875 where there were none with the 2050 last but not least is issues with the built-in current limiter circuit I've noticed with reactive loads that the TDA 2050 would make like a loud clicking sound or a popping sound if you're using a really reactive load like a forum speaker in a ported box and just at the right frequency where the impedance is pretty hard to drive it would cause the TDA 2050 current limiter circuit to kick in and when those kick in with reactive loads you get a really you know like a pop sound or a click on the kick drum beats you might notice that in older stereos from the 70s like your various receivers when you really push them hard with forum loads you'll sometimes get that effect that's because of the current limiter circuit that's way a lot of do-it-yourselfers don't include current limiters in their amplifier designs because it's really hard to set those up to protect the transistors without seriously limiting current and I don't want to get into that much it's kind of a complex subject but the LM1875 that I never had a problem with that I noticed that when driving transformer loads I was using it as a step-up inverter and in some cases with the 2050 I would get that raspy sound when the current limiter kicked in you can hear the buzz in the transformer and well the 1875 had no issue with that it has the better more complicated current limiter circuit obviously so yeah it's kind of a back and forth battle between them you know one chip does better in one area worse than others where the other did better in one area and worse than the area where the other chip did better you know it wasn't a clear winner here but I was really surprised with those distortion test figures that really surprised me you know if the LM1875 did better there I would have declared it the winner but yeah I just can't say that now so yeah this is really interesting it's an eye opener for me so that's going to do it for this one really appreciate you watching this was an all-day project I mean I had these boards off and I had to swap them I had to take them off to change these capacitors here and I had some issues with the solder joints breaking loose when I pushed down on these connectors to screw in you know to clamp down on these these conductors here I had a solder joint break here I had a solder joint break here that's why I do not like these blue connectors there are some the blue ones that are better quality but these are awful the ones that came in these kits don't use them they're awful and yeah I had to swap the chip out and test that because I was kind of curious what was going on with my beloved 1875 which well I lost a little respect for it anyway found that 2050 you probably should have an output teal coil on it you know the the network there with the resistor and coil but yeah I think I said enough that'll do it for this one thanks for watching