lBGE5lwbruE
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lBGE5lwbruE
Unknown Category
Hey guys, going to take a look at the ubiquitous LM386 audio amplifier IC. Going to do some power measurements, talk about layout issues. You know, a lot of people build these things and they pop and buzz and they get distortion and things. And it's really not a problem with the chip, it's the layout of the circuit. You really have to do it right and we'll experiment with that. And like I say, we'll do power measurements and all that. I'm shooting on a new camera I bought. Canon PowerShot ELF or ELPH, whatever they call it. 115IS. Practically brand new. I got at one of those check and cash places. I guess somebody got it as a gift maybe and they needed quick cash and they turned it in for their drugs. Or maybe they had a rent payment or something. They usually don't give you any money for these things. Maybe 20, 30 bucks. But I saw it in there and got it for 40 bucks. You can buy these things new. You know, they're an old model for 80 dollars now. Really happy with the audio quality of it. But I don't want to get off on a tangent here. So let's talk about the LM386. Well, my first experience with this chip was probably 30 years ago. I was getting into electronics and audio and things like that. And as a teenager, I really needed something to play with. And of course, Radio Shack down the road. And they sold, they've been selling these things. And they still sell these chips. Even today. And I think they started carrying them back in the 70's. This is a national semiconductor product. Though I think other companies have produced it. It's a, uh... Like I say, it's a good little chip for building small amplifiers. Maybe one of some Bill Jones computer speakers. It'd work for doing that. But it does have its limitations though. And we'll talk about that as well. Well, as far as distortion, it's actually pretty close to HiFi. But it doesn't quite make it. You know, my criteria for HiFi... Excuse me. The amplifier total harmonic distortion across the power band and frequency band must be under 0.1% or one tenth of a percent of total harmonic distortion. This chip... Across its power band, it's well under one percent. And it's just scraping the bottom in probably the most audible range. So, it's not bad, but it doesn't quite make it. Here's the frequency band. And these measurements are at six volts. Might do better at nine volts. But, uh... You know, up here is the one percent line. So, in much of the audible band, it's well under one percent. And I really question if you can hear distortion. That's so low under one percent. You know... I don't know. It depends on the music as well. Most music, it would take well over one percent. Maybe one, two percent. But some music with piano or flute... Um... It's... You might be able to detect it at lower levels. But at this level, I still doubt it. Now, the one limitation of this amplifier... You really shouldn't use it with four ohm loads. And you can see that right here. As you increase the power supply voltage... The output power should go up quite a bit. And we're getting some shadows from the kitty. The Snickers. Take a look outside. But, as you see here, it doesn't really go up at all. I mean, just a sliver. But, that tells you right there that the amplifier cannot handle four ohm loads. Don't even monkey with four ohm loads. And here... Eight ohm loads. You're good up until nine volts. There's a bit of increase at 12 volts. But, the chip's gotta dissipate quite a bit of power. And it's not really a power dissipating type design. So, uh... Nine volts, eight ohms, and you're golden. That's where you probably should use this chip to get the most power. What? What do you want? Okay, well... Nine volts, eight ohms. We'll do some power measurements there. Give it a quick listening test. And we'll talk about layout. So... Come right back. Okay, I have it all breadboarded and everything. We'll do some of the power measurements here. And, uh... I got the power supplied decoupling capacitor right close to the pins. And, uh... Everything looks pretty good. So, uh... Let's give it a listen. Ooh, nasty. I don't know if the camera picks that up or not. But there's kind of a fuzzy distortion sound. What is the problem? Well, I purposely neglected my signal in power grounds. And I see a lot of people doing that. And, um... In some cases, the thing is so bad it oscillates. It sounds really crappy. But, uh... This one... Wasn't as bad. But it still sounds fuzzy and nasty to me. I don't want any output or power supply ground signals flowing in the same path that a signal ground flows in. Because that's gonna cause distortion and even oscillations. Okay, so I'll rewire this thing and come back and see what we get. Okay, so here's what I've done. At pin 4, which is the ground pin on the IC, Right at that point. I mean, no wires going a distance. But right at that point, I split the grounds off into separate zones. Here's the decoupling... power supply decoupling capacitor. It comes in at its own point. Here is the power ground. For the output and the power supply, it has its own point. And, most importantly, the input comes off at its own zone. Own grounding zone. So, the bypass capacitor, which is part of the input circuit. If you look at the amplifier's internal schematic. The negative feedback is just connected to ground in this chip. And, also, the input ground comes through this same grounding zone. So, what that does is keep the input ground signals separate from the power ground signals. So, you don't have any of those power grounds conducting in the input ground. So, if you connected your input over here, you also have the output flowing in that same ground. And, that little bit of resistance in the conductor will mean that that's going to raise a point here. The voltage at this point. And, it's going to cause distortion. So, doing this will keep the amplifier from sputtering, oscillating, or just having that fuzzy distortion. And, you can use it to its full capability. Okay. Well, it's really hard to see. But, here's pin 4. There's the decoupling cap. This is the ground for the power supply. It's going off in its own direction. And, here is the grounds for the signal. So, it goes off in its own direction. And, that just goes over to the bypass cap. Alright. Let's give it a listen. Perfect. No buzzing. Perfect clear signal. Much better. See how important that is? Because, if you can get one of these LM386's to sound nice and clean with the proper grounding, you're set for moving on to other amplifiers. Because, this chip is pretty sensitive to crappy grounding. Alright. Well, I'm going to move on to the power test now. Okay. I put on the non-inductive 8 ohm resistor. Connected that to where the speaker was connected. I set the power supply to be exactly 9 volts. And, got the scope connected to the resistor. So, we can measure the output. Okay. At 1 kHz, I turn it up. And, it's starting to clip. Turn it back down. Now, you can see there's a fairly large step. Because, the way the volume controls on these, they step in discrete levels. It would be better if I didn't have to deal with that. Like, add a potentiometer or something. But, eh. For now, this will work. Okay. So, what are we getting here? 1.9... Yeah. 1.92 volts RMS. Okay. So, I'll punch that in. 1.92. You have to square that. Divided by our load impedance of 8 ohms. And, we're getting .46 watts. Not too bad. Now, if I could better measure this. You know, these boards have a little bit of resistance. And, um, get something where I can, you know, home it in closer to the pre-clipping level. I probably can get, um, somewhere between .6 and .7 watts out of this thing. 9 volt supply 8 ohm load. In fact, I measured it before. You know, a few years ago when I was getting, like, .66 or .67 or something like that. Watts of output. So, yeah. It's not too bad. I mean, it's not going to be screaming loud. But, you know, how the logarithmic nature of hearing is. You know, around a watt is going to, depending on the efficiency of your speaker, you know, you can get a decent amount of decibels. So, and I guess that wraps this video up. Just wanted to show you, uh, the ubiquitous old LM386. How to lay it out properly. You know, pretty much applies to any electronic circuit, including digital. And, uh, see what kind of power this thing could make. Thanks for watching.