nxKkM4bXPFI
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nxKkM4bXPFI
Unknown Category
What is up everybody, Dac here, and today I'm going to be talking about how to choose the right port size for a speaker enclosure and problems associated with ports which are either too small or too big. So first off, if you've ever tried to design a sub box you may have used WinISD. You can see here that even though the port sizes are vastly different, they seem to have the same response curve, but of course one port's got to be better than the other. So which is the best? Something you may have used is an online calculator. You can see here that I've put in parameters for a 15 inch driver with 60 mils of excursion which is pretty reasonable these days for a high excursion, low frequency sub, tuned to about 30 hertz and you can see that the minimum diameter of the port quoted here is bigger than the driver itself. So of course that just can't be right. You can see boxes everywhere in home theater with ports which are way small than that with subs which are comparable to this one here. So first off I'm going to be looking at problems with ports which are too small. Now in order for two things to be just as loud they need to move the same amount of air. So for a 5 centimeter port and a 20 centimeter wide port, air needs to be moving 16 times faster through the 5 centimeter port than the 20 centimeter port. That's why this one here is so large because it's trying to avoid air rushing through the port so quickly and creating turbulence. So turbulence is created when air is moving out of the port very quickly and it meets this kind of barrier where it goes from fast throwing all coherent into just an open space and it all goes to hell. There's air moving everywhere, turbulence forms which is the leading cause of chuffing which is a common thing with ported boxes and here you can see that with the large port because the air is moving more slowly through it there's a lot less turbulence and thus there's a lot less chuffing. You can of course flare it and you can see here with the large port that there's no more turbulence at all but with a small port there's still a bit of turbulence. Now you can if you make the port super big you can get away with getting no turbulence through a small port but then you may as well go with a large port in the first case. Although you do get a bit more box space efficient if you do a small port with huge flares on either end. I see it in some compact bookshelf speakers such as KEF has a silicone port, like a flexible port which has a big flare on the front and the rear. As for the characteristics of a small port dynamics can suffer meaning that kicks aren't quite as tight and it leads to a muddy sound. So that's often why a small port or a port which is too small is actually good for home theater sub. Rumbles don't need to be particularly accurate they're more or less just noise so any infrasonics you can actually use a small port and flare it at either end just to save a bit of box volume because by the time you try to make a relatively small unit try to tune it to 20 hertz the port would need to be so wide it's absolutely enormous its length is two meters plus in some cases. So if you make it smaller you can fit it all within the box nicely without having to sacrifice any sound quality due to it being tuned low. And now I'm going to talk about problems with ports which are too big. With a correct size port when you stop setting power to the voice coil it should stop making sound. This is a common reason why people prefer sealed to ported because ported can lose definition the port can be wanting to do its own thing and this is a bit of an example of that. So when you stop sending power to the voice coil sound should stop immediately and with with properly damped ports you'll see that as soon as the signal stops the wave should stop. But a problem with large ports is that the damping is less so even after the signal stops going to the driver a bit of air can keep moving in and out of the port like when you blow over a bottle and you hear a go hmmm. So what this leads to is the sound coming from the speaker is less tight less accurate and has a bit of a kind of boomy nature to it. It wants to peak more around the port and yeah that's not very good for sound quality but it is good for SPL because you want a big high resonance so going with a big port for SPL is often a good thing. So what is the best size for a port? If I've talked about what's bad about small what's bad about large what's the best compromise? And I do actually have an answer. I've seen this in many different places and it all seems to line up the same thing. The best way to design a ported box is to go with 16 square inches per cubic foot which ends up being 100 square centimeters per 28 liters or 3.6 square centimeters per liter of box volume. So these are all port surface area to box volume ratios. For a 10 cubic foot box you want 160 square inches which is like a big 16 by 10 inch port or maybe a 32 by 5 inch port something like that and of course you can do the calculations for the metric yourself if you want to do them. These are all for square or rectangular ports. If you're doing a round port you can actually make the box bigger than one cubic foot per 16 square inches. You can make ports smaller if they're more aerodynamic. So if you've got a flared port you can make the port slightly smaller. If you've got an aero port you can make it smaller. Also if you do have a round port compared to a rectangular or square port you can make it smaller. And if you have an un-aerodynamic port such as a rectangular port that has a corner in it which doesn't have any sort of curving in the corner then you can make it slightly bigger than 16 square inches per cubic foot maybe 20 square inches per cubic foot as the restriction of airflow damps it just a bit more so it doesn't ring. A couple of examples of where I found this ratio before I tested it in a box myself and found out that it does work pretty damn well is here on digital design site. You can see their one cubic foot box has more 15 square inches of vent but two is 32, three is 48 and they all divide to go to 16 square inches of port area per cubic foot. This is quoted on the website. Another example I'd look at is on Sundown's website where I found the NSV4 10 inch driver. They suggest a one and a half cubic foot box with a 24 square inch port surface area. So you can see right here that that is 16 square inches per cubic foot of box volume just like digital designs. So yeah thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this video and learned anything from it uh feel free to like and subscribe and also just wondering what's your opinion. Now I've seen other sizes in other videos for example comparing port surface area with driver surface area for example Showtime SPL Ed Leicester. He mentions that he tunes his ports per driver surface area for SPL. So yeah that's an example where in SPL it's often a good idea to tune the port surface area to the driver surface area rather than the box volume. But once again feel free to leave your own opinion in the comments below. I look forward to seeing how other people do it and I might even test some of them if they sound good. Yep, thanks for watching and see ya!