T-Motor F7 Mini Stack: https://bit.ly/3imyWHy
Need FPV Help Download AskFPV
Android: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fpvask.askk
IOS: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1533858261

Pretty nice looking stack! T-Motor is killing it! 😃
Great review, Sam!!!
Stay safe there with your family! 🖖😊

Thank you so much, that all the information I needed

Thanks for the video it really helped alot👍

👊👊💪💪

Do a build video!

will this work on a 6 inches long range build?

Hi, I just installed this in my Armattan Mongoose. How do I configure the OSD? Can't get my battery Volts to display, RSSI and timer.

NICE JOB

i got this..

Hey man. Just came across this video and it’s helped a lot. Do you have a full setup video for this stack? I’ve purchased this same stack and followed your instructions on here and can’t seem to get my crossfire diversity to get any power.

Hi thanks 👍 but can you help me how to connect tx and RX from runcan split 4 for camera control...any free uarts?

Where would you put a GPS on this board?

This flight controller does not have a barometer.

Hi. Have a target for INAV?

Just bought this FC so this is helpful.  Did you test the VTX power switch?  Does it power off the 10V and 5V outputs that go to the VTX?  Do you know if it powers off the 10V to the DJI/Vista as well?

There is no possibility to install a GPS Module right?

Hi I have a Question, is it possible to use a xt30 plug to power the stack or do I need to use the xt60 plug?

What kind of MCU is the esc using? T motor doesn't mention this at all. Unlike the new f55 ultra 20x20 esc that has the first F4 and US Fairchild mosfets. Lots of specs on that. Not many on this

what should I change to work with 6s. Everything is working with 4s but if I try 6s it sounds permanent.

 @SANDY-FPV  20000000002000000000 nanokilometer

Why yours is black and on the store is yellow boards? Is it because a reviewer edition?

First like & First comment 😁

Second!

If using a dji caddx vista it just gets plugged in correct ?  There is nothing special you need to do it should just power the caddxs unit up right? 
I ask because I have plugged in 3 different caddxs units and none of them will power up using the plug & play ....

Thank you 👍🙏🍺❤️

Also where can I find a manual for this board? I went to T- motor website, but no go! Been trying youtube, just came across yours.

Can you show a video on how to hook up an ImmersionRC Ghost Hybrid to the T-Motor Mini F7?  I haven't been able to find a wiring diagram on how to connect these two and I am sure a lot of people will be using these two together to save space for racing FPV.

20020😂

Not sure if you read comments on your older videos, but you possibly just saved me a world of aggravation with this one. I'm new to DJI and set up my FrSky RXSR on R1 and also just plugged the DJI connector in without realizing it defaulted to R1 (obvious from your video, but I didn't notice as I did the connections at different times). What I don't know with DJI/Betaflight is that if I left both connected then set R1 to Serial RX , is whether the DJI input would just be ignored or create a conflict.

Thank you, and subscribed!

Hi, I can't access your website dronemeshforum.com . It seems the domain name was expired. Thanks!

Not trying to be an ass but you keep saying DGI did you mean DJI, its just throwing me for a loop......am I saying it wrong?

Same, i'm confused now. But i'm just gonna wait for it to arrive first if it has the metal FETs

It's black like it is here. I was confused also by Pyro drone images

for the ESC I think the black one has metal FETs. And on the FC there is no difference only board color.

You still supporting those bullies that trolled me for month6..second accounts.. and insulted all our friends  including you???

Yes this is stupid. No info. The FC is labeled and the esc has nothing. All I can say is it's pretty much like there f55 but inverted. Try studying there web site connections

Hey i do read from time to time. Just dont connect the SBUS output of the DJI you dont need it unless you are usuing the controller.

Yes I am moving it into http://fpvconnect.app

 @DroneMesh  does the f7 has gps option?

