Awesome looking stacks, Gal! Really nice! 😃
Great review!
Stay safe there with your family! 🖖😊

Nice video watching front the UK

thanks

Hi Gal, that Pacer F7 FC is very similar to the one I received in the September FPVCrate. Very good FC. I did notice that the Pacer ESC on your build is the 50a not the 60a. The Pacer 50a was in the August FPVCrate.

Is there any difference with the Yellow PCB version of the mini stack? Also do have to remove those extra wires from the DJI plug if not using the DJI controller as you not enabling the UART in BF?

Thank you for the review.
Nice FC.
How would you compare it to the Kakute F7 HDV AIO? (same price range apparently)

Great gals...how to set pit VTX on Betaflight via switch?...what kind of switch mode to active the pit control on option Modes

hello I can mount it on a 7 "long range .... I have a very narrow and low frame a lethal conception

any chance you can show me a picture of the air unit cable of the connector that plugs into the FC? I dont have one and need to find it

It can be used with the controller that comes with DJI FPV drone ?

Is this frame for analog as well and could u put the tyro79 on This frame or not pls reply thx

Hi Gal I know this is a year old video and I don't know if you still have the FC at hand but I am having issues with the camera control function. Could you please help me what resource pin out in the CLI is for this F7 single sided FC? (what is resource camera_control assigned to)

Hi Gal, I have a Question, can I power the stack combo with a xt30 plug or do I need to use the xt60 plug?

So I guess that you can't use a wired up DJI cable and expect it to power a Caddx Vista. How do you bridge to the 10V pad or would I be better off doing as you did and not use the DJI port? Thanks for any help with this matter Gal.

Hey Gal - I have this FC stack and I flashed the firmware without creating a back up and now nothing is working. I can't seem to find a default config file online. Do you happen to have one or know where to find one? Thanks so much!

F7 HD version only for digital osd? Is it not suitable for analog OSD

I run this mini f7 and esc combo with 2203.5 2850kv motors. How big of a 4s could I run? Would a 2000mah give me some long range flight times? Currently running 1100mahs

Hey one question,
Just got the toothless nano, hooked it up to my fc and now I only get the Foxeer osd („Foxeer, voltage, timer) but not the betaflight osd from my fc.
So how do I turn off the Foxeer osd and enable the bf osd?

I believe wiring is correct... I am using the mamba mk3 stack;)

Thx so much!

Hi Gal, did you saw the new velox v2 motors?

How do you bind your reciver/controller??

Thanks Mario, take care!

Thanks!

My pleasure

🍻

Looking at the specs, they look identical. 
If you are using a different UART for your RX, you don't need to remove the yellow SBUS wire.

My pleasure. Well they are many options out there and I never tried the Kakute F7 HDV AIO FC, so I can't really tell.

Thanks, it has to be supported on an FC hardware basis and as far as I can remember it's not.

I'm pretty sure that it will fit. Sorry for the late response.

Sorry but I don't have it. As far as I can remember it's a standard 1.25mm JST 6/5 pins connector.

Nope...

Sure, you can use the 20mm stack on the Tyro79.

Sorry but I don't have this stack anymore. 
Did you contact T-Motor?

Sorry, I missed your question. Both will do.

Sure you can - you just need to trim the cable and solder it directly to the Vista instead of using the Air Unit plug. You have another two 10v pads in addition to the one which is being used by the DJI plug, so you can use them if needed (I hope I got your question right).

 @KremerFPV  Thanks for your time. In my case I have the vista connections soldered and was trying to use the DJI plug on the other end to the FC, but no power.  I guess I will just not be using the DJI port on the FC. Not sure what good the DJI port is if it isn't sending any power to the Vista. Hmmm...

Hi, I don't have it unfortunately. Are you sure that your flashed the correct firmware? You should use TMTR/TMFC

Yes - no OSD chip.

Sorry I missed your question. It depends on your setup.

Sorry, I missed some comments on this video including yours. Hope you're still flying 🤘

 @KremerFPV  haha yes i am still fyling, wish you the best:)

Hi David, yes I have them and will test them soon.

 @KremerFPV  oh nice!! they are the same as the v1s?  I saw them at unmannedtechshop.. they are not even on the t-motor website

Which RX / TX do you have?

Radiolink at9s pro

Too rich for me at 100 dollars....🤔😳😳

