Man, that intro 😂

"That's what she said!" Lol. Great video and gives me some confidence to try this out. Clear instructions.... Great job!

"That's what she said."lost my damn mind dude LMAO

I am experienced in building quadcopters but I still love watching build videos :). This is a very nice build video I enjoyed

Bro you should have let that intro play that was dope lol

Damn dude I still feel like I skipped half a year of drone school.

Thank you very much! Never built a drone myself but this looks like an easy to follow step-by-step instruction. Wish it would have a split camera for onboard video recording.

Ok that intro caught me off guard

With a pod this thing will be a beast

Great job, interesting to watch, can´t wait for fly footage and your opinion.

I think of all the ppl doing build guides on YouTube, you are my fav! And I find your voice very soothing. Also,y ou are very informative and your knowledge in PCB"s really shows. It's really cool when you talk about the different components on a board and what they do.
Keep bringing in the great content. And I know you will.
[Flywoo Explorer LR4 V2 | Seth, 37 / FTL, FL]

that intro hahaha

Great job mesh man.   Keep this content coming

Awesome video 👍 and build. Do more of this.

Man bro I have been waiting in this review build video that no you so much bro

Lol, from spider drone to flying drone what a metamorphosis.

Simple but complete.....👍👍✊✊✊✊🇸🇩🇸🇩🇸🇩

rx fits nice and easy under the whole stack right on the frame with shrink tube and then glued

You forgot to mention to not breath the solder smoke in

perfect video for me.

lol that’ll be good hmmmmmm 🤔?

Was the best 😆

sorry to be so off topic but does anyone know a trick to log back into an Instagram account..?
I somehow lost the account password. I would love any assistance you can offer me!

@Jesus Calvin instablaster ;)

@David Jaxx thanks for your reply. I found the site through google and im in the hacking process atm.
Takes quite some time so I will get back to you later when my account password hopefully is recovered.

@David Jaxx It did the trick and I actually got access to my account again. Im so happy:D
Thanks so much you saved my account !

@Jesus Calvin you are welcome :)

Great build, little tip though, you should always tin (add solder) to your soldering iron tips regardless of temp, which will help with lifespan and protection from oxidation long term.

sooooooo nice i expect many from u we support youu....sooo nice very very very very detailed information greattt jobbb

Intro is very super

Cool build

10% OFF Tyro69: BG10TR69
Eachine Tyro69:  http://bit.ly/2kgvWVf
Soldering Iron: http://bit.ly/2xR2zM9
Hex Tools: http://bit.ly/31KA93c
Heat Shrink: http://bit.ly/2xR2zM9

Great video, can you do some flight footage with 2S and 3S packs?

Nice video.

With the capacitor i simply covered the two wires in super glue as its none conductive

Awesomeness 😍👍👌

At 8:00 I def thought I was watching a Lewis roasman video

That's what she said :D

What receiver would you recommend with it. And where should I put it in placement

yes yes yes im 12 and i have been saving money so i can buil my own fpv drone

First crash upside down and it is a goner!

Heat resistant tape shields help & a vary lil bit goes a long way

Never use water to clean the soldering tip. This causes drastic temperature changes which can damage the tip.

Official Tyro 69 Facebook group: Link in the comment below, come join us.

Hey mate, found your video while looking to build a toothpick quad. Are there newer kits you'd recommend or is this still a solid choice?

Thank you for this great video.
Can I ask something?
How and where can learn about brogramming and design flight controller with stm32

Ajudou de mais 🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷

Flux would be great too along with a smaller tip.

No, professionals everywhere use very lightly damp sponges and brass wool in combination, you aren’t going to harm the lifespan of the tip doing it properly

Having a 20x20mm stack is a plus, many 26x26mm boards are hit or miss.

boom .

cool I just ordered one i'm glad you made a video can you  make another video  of you flying it.

Really nice little quad, Sam! Great job! 😃
Looking forward to the flight video! 😃

Deberias poner en los subtitulos en español xfa

Nice to see someone bridging the solder properly.. nobody has applied proper techniques when applying solder that ive seen.. great job xD

IMHO this is a very tough build for a beginner

Great video! Thanks! Could it carry a Caddx Turtle V2? What d You think?

Really cool video, thanks! Can you recommend a cheap controller I can use with this? Is that compatible with any drone controller? I ask as I have many drones such as TIANQU VISUO XS809S etc.

you forgot to add battery and fpv screen price :<

where is the second part of this?

Excellent but I'm terrible at Soldering is there a FC with plugs for the same build

This tutorial could not be better! Thanks for speaking a very clear english, so even people who english is not their native language, can understand you!

i have this drone over a year awsome super dependable never brakes but get rid of that cheap camera and put a good one

My ts100 screen runs super dim or not at all. I have no idea what's going on

I have watched this full video of your many time and after completing remembering it and went to find parts than I found that it is no $70 built, it is double the amount

Great build video! In my opinion u use way too much solder, there were couple of close calls, too high temp and touching too long for such a small, cheap board. Great job anyways

arent the holes on the pads of the receiver meant to put the wires through to make a nicer connection?

So now I know how to build.  This means nothing if you still do not know how to set up your radio and program the board. Great video showing the building of the kit.  Wish you would have shown the rest of what it takes to get it into the air.

So where do the yellow, red, and wire go when I have i bus ? Please can someone answer my question I'm very confused cause I'm new.

ordered one too with jumper receiver for 49 euros all in.....delivered within 3 days....

Soldering properly? the Motor wires barely even are connected to the esc. it might work, but a solid solderjoint looks way different

Check my latest video on the channel.. It's what your looking for

Is this a kit or did you buy the parts individually and if it is a kit where can I buy it

That's what she said lol

The video looks great too bad I don't understand the language but I'm interested in building a homemade drone ...
Parese genial el video lástima que no entiendo el idioma pero me interesa armar un drón casero

What if I use ibus?  Do I still have to bridge the pads for SBUS?

Do i need this low esr capacitor because i want to build a drone and i want to buy the parts and have to know it

Link to the reciver?

I'm thinkig about building a tiny cinewhoop with the Tyro69 parts. Do you think I can use a Beta85 or a Beta95 frame with it?

I want to build this....What remote transmitter will work with this?  If I need to flash...any links on how to do it?

can i get the list of tools and parts emailed to me

Are the battery leads and capacitor leads connected at the same terminal?

Does anyone know how to connect the drone to a controller or phone?

Uhh tyro, tyro... I had two tyro99s and both lasted for a week haha

can someone link me a controller and recever unit plz

is it possible to adjust the camera angle??

Where do you put the battery

This tyro69 designed for no rx room to place 😥

How to mount gopro on that thing

Thanks for the video. Good advice. Have you tried different tip (conical) for that iron? It's much easier to work with smaller soldering jobs then the chisel type (default).

I have a dx8 and thinking about getting this is there a receiver that size compatible with my transmitter

dd a couple caps

Sorry esc with plugs not FC

Mine still works after 15 packs xd

Well done my brother....you have given me the confidence for my first build. Great job. Very clean build.

Thank you very much for sharing this useful guide for beginners like me. Have a nice day and best wishes for you 🙏🙏🙏❤️🍻🍻

How to add a gps on that drone

never heard of flux huh?

Bom trabalho. Mas onde está a lista de material?

Bro, looked like you were slopping solder all over the chips. Heat the pads, introduce the solder to the pads. When the pads are hot enough it will draw the solder onto it. You have much more control than shoveling it off of the tip. JS

I have cheap drones from target.  Can I use those controllers for this?

I am 13 and i want to do this. Is it advisible for me to do it? Pls guide

Can I use a dsmx reciever with this? Thanks

Bro, I want to build a small drone for fishing. To drop a payload of 8 ounces. Can it be done ?

Does it matter how to connect the motor wires?

Плату PBD Вы залуживаете КРАСИВО!!)), но предварительное нанесение флюса на жало паяльной станции и контактную площадку, было бы не лишним. С удовольствием учусь вашей оригинальной методике распайки проводов двигателей!!)) Я посмотрел за год дстоточно много фильмов, но Ваш ПРАВАДА ОРИГИНАЛЕН!)) 40 лет в электронике чему - то научили!!, но здесь ВАЖНЫ СЕКРЕТЫ))).. Я извиняюсь!!(( смотрю в темпе V=0,5 да еще с GOOGL "переводчиком", так что коментарии пишу по мере просмотра контента. Перемещение Cф. на противоположную сторону платы, для избежания К.З. ( так называют у нас короткое замыкание на плату), выводы Cf и корпус закрыть термоусадкой. Не судите строго!!, но остатки припоя и обрезки надо удалять с монтажного "стола" смыс я думаю понятен. Когда  подготавливаете провода WAG - 12 надо "поднять" мощность или температуру жала. Это говорят во мне "остатки технолога"!!))... Извини!! но ЭТО пайка проводов АКБ !!)) ++++. Дайтон 2,5 готов и лежит на столе,  утром ему БУДЕТ!!!  МОНТАЖУ!!)) Пойду покурю!!(( чет устал я!!..  You are tinning the PBD board BEAUTIFULLY !!)), but preliminary application of the flux to the soldering station tip and the contact pad would not be superfluous. I am happy to learn your original method of desoldering engine wires !!)) I have watched a lot of films in a year, but your TRUTH IS ORIGINAL!)) 40 years in electronics taught something !!, but SECRETS ARE IMPORTANT here))) .. I apologize !! ((I look at a pace of V = 0.5 and even with a GOOGL "translator", so I write comments as I watch the content. Moving the Cph. to the opposite side of the board, to avoid short circuits (this is what we call a short circuit on the board), the terminals Cf and the case should be shrink-wrapped. Do not judge strictly !!, but the remnants of solder and trimming must be removed from the mounting "table" the meaning I think is clear. they say in me "the remnants of a technologist" !!)) ... Sorry !! but THIS is soldering the battery wires !!)). Dayton 2.5 is ready and lying on the table, in the morning it WILL BE !!! INSTALLATION !!)) I'll go for a smoke !! ((I'm even tired !! ..

Hei, is it possible to build a dji mini 2 like drone? Like not a FPV drone but a normal cinematic drone? Thanks I’m advance

What other kind of receivers do ur recommend for express elrs thx

Can you put links for the parts thank you😁

Nice job, but the way you have soldered those motor wires means that you will have to dismantle the whole thing when you (inevitably) discover that one or more motors are spinning the wrong way!

Can i put onne 4s 1000mah on it ?

I'm just getting into FPV Drones. Are there any cheap lipo chargers or are they all expensive because I can only find chargers that cost like 70$

Very nice explanation with the soldering for beginners.  And dealing with solder splatter. But please clean the solder blobs off your workspace before carrying on. They can still stick to your work piece, like from static electricity.

please tell me this drone build parts..?

Phil Chandler - Barefoot Beekeeper then you use blheli to switch the direction?

 @taxi-ko7vg  ah, I've only used more primitive software so far.

What's the cost of all components ???

Can I use this receiver with this kit? Flysky IA6B i-bus receiver + flysky 10ch 2.4Ghz FS-i6x Transmitter

Great videos. Very inspirational and informative. 
I am a NOOB and like DIY. 
In here there is no RC you mentioned. Which one you recommend. Help soon I am excited to build this weekend.

Hi, I am a beginner to this. How would you know what motor wire goes to what pin? 9.31min

If I start building drones Do I need to buy a 3-D printer?

What is the name of the solder gun? Where did you buy it from?

What's the camera name?

did you 3d print that part with a 3d pen??

mobula 7 or this

16:08 Why not shrinktube the leads.....problem solved "for ever"

What did you end up doing to keep the camera and vtx in place? the vtx I'm not too worried about but the camera is pretty loose in the 3d printed holder and I'm afraid it will start bouncing around mid flight. Thanks for making this video, I really appreciate it!

Soldering flux ???

no flux ??????

1:05 80/90 bucks? got mine for 35$

You should change the price, its not $69 anymore

?

Could I put a ski camera on this or no?

Learn to solder dude! See my reply below to trii.xGamin

I'm wondering if I should get a happymodel larva or this?  And what will the best batteries and props?  Seen the Tyro69 for around $62..🤔🧐😎

can you make a list of your kits used and where to buy them

You can use any rx that is sbus that will bind with your tx, recommend using a mini rx.  Frsky or Flysky...I use flysky because it was the least expensive when I started this hobby...not the best but it works.

If not any recommendations

Same dilemma here

i have one tyro69 and it make me lot of problems, at this moment it can't fly...also, in this video you can't see where he put the receiver inside the frame, it's because it don't have place!... ibus configuration it's different... parts are whit badd quality...it  don't think about this, Larva is the best option whit better camera and dvr + 200mw vtx

It's all linked in description.

 @DroneMesh  some of the links are not working and there are just too many links confusing me which one are the to your equipment used

the tyro 69 has 69 dislikes

good video, bad soldering and electronics knowledge.

Great vid and thanks. However - why do our beloved US friends say "sodering" when it's "soLdering"??? Always makes me laugh. :-)

Can I actually use this fpv camera on my Smartphone with an UVC OTG 5.8G 150CH Diversity Audio FPV Dual Antenna Receiver? 

I would love to know this, just as much I love your Videos, keep it up bro

If I were to use this for filming landscapes, what camera would you recommend/what 4K video camera can this handle?

And yes unfortunately I need 4K for real estate but I want to have something I can get amazing swooping shots with.

1:35 that is not a flat tip that is a chisel tip.....

Blud said 69$ for the whole thing when one item is 81$💀

Один "с ума -сашедший")) показал, если 4 головки винтов проклеить СКОЧЕМ!! с обратной сторооны они будут "СТЯТЬ не ОПУСКАЯСЬ"!!)) продолжайте СЛУШАЕМ!!))..

Bruh that intro. Thank you. I needed that. You brought me up. Mentally been down low. I haven’t smoked for a while. Thank you for that short bit, wasn’t expecting that!

You Have A Decent Soldering Iron But What Happened To The Flux???... That Soldering You Did Seems Very Poor... And The Way You Soldered Those Motors Seems Very Very Risky Because You Definitely Don't Want Those Wires To Bend like That...

On this drone. Can I load Action Cam ?

camera is junk rteplace it

$50 budget? 🥺

Is this a build ? I know the build has to be from sctatch not like that!!!!! This is just an assembly

I’ve never seen someone so confident giving a tutorial on soldering while soldering so badly lol

I have respect for providing informative content but you really shouldn't be instructing people on how to soldier. It was cringy to watch

Just intro and bla bla bla, advertising cheap Chinese tools and at the bottom nothing special, tragic 😕

Mumble builder, not for beginners.

That looks like a crappy quad. And definitely NOT for beginners. If you are a beginner, get a Tiny GT8 instead.

you have to get a vtx for an fpv camera and yes you can use it with a smartphone, but the latency is high

Golden Aura Design Agency you would need a 5 inch quad to hold a 4k camera like a hero 7. This is way too small for that. With a 5 inch you will also get much more stable video with less random vibrations

 @neonoir__  But like the Tarsier and stuff?

It's a knife tip actually 👍

You can load a runcam split 3

 @DroneMesh  Ok good! Thanks.

Wolf what part you think is crappy?

