Step 1: Plan the function of circuit 1:17
Step 2: Component sourcing & paper Schematic 2:18
Step 3: Proper schematic 4:58
Step 4: PCB design & ordering 6:29

Step 0: Know wtf you're doing to begin with.

You taught me in 11 mins  what my Design teacher did not for entire year.. There is a lot of hard work behind your videos...Thank you very much..God bless you.

"trust me, I'm an engineer" 0:25

0:24 I love how you actually demonstrated soldering SMD parts to a perf board :D

Couple other tips that I've picked up in my time in industry so far is include testpoint vias (and local ground points) on almost all major nets/connections! This will help debugging PCBs by making it easier to pop in scope probes.

Another thing to keep in mind is power domains and signal domains. You usually want to keep these separate as much as possible to prevent interference (Along with some nice ground floods to help isolate fringing fields).

In terms of routing, it always helps to route your major signals first (i.e. RF paths > High Bandwidth Serial Paths > Low Speed Serial Paths > HF Power Paths > LF Power Paths > GPIO Lines > Power) as this will help signal integrity and generally make it easier to route.

My eyes hurt when you soldered that SMB IC to the perfboard :'D

So THAT'S how it's done!  I'd been muddling through this process making all kinds of mistakes and wondering how so many people with a lot less time in electronics than I were able to do it so easily.  Nice to finally be able to connect the dots, literally.  Thank you for this!

Time for GreaScott to change the intro to a PCB then !

This is officially my favorite video on YouTube. I've always wanted to make my own PCB happen but never had it felt more approachable or attainable than after watching this.

I don't know about anyone else but 'Let's get started!' for me means have a few deep breaths, stretch a little, chill, tune in and carry on watching and I'm not even majorly into electronics, I just like the art & craftiness of it all!

they never taught me any prototyping in my mechatronics course, thank you for doing the work my school failed to do

"You cannot solder an SMD component to a perf board" - "Hold my beer" 0:24

i watch hundreds of tutorials but non of them was as good as yours! keep like that! thanks

I'm an electrical engineer and i love your videos. never stop

I love watching your videos.   Honestly, your voice makes whatever your talking about seem interesting.   It makes me want to learn.  So thanks.

An easy rule of thumb you can use for trace widths is 10 mils (0.01") per amp. Then you only need to bust out a calculator for the really high current traces.

Finally someone with proper English to explain that!

Excellent tutorial.

I am loving JLCPCB! From part picking, to schematic, to layout, to ordering the PCB and BOM.. all super seamless and easy! I'm not even getting paid for this, but I am really digging it. Glad I saw this.

Step 5: Go back to step 1 because you accidentally made a dead short from +5v to ground

llary Step 5: find s mistake. Try to fix it on your prototype. 
Step 6: start scratching leads from the pcb, add wires if needed
Step 7-10: repeat step 6 with the remaining circuit boards. 
Step 11: go back to step 3 and try again

Another easy and clean soldering technique:
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=aEn3Wb_zrts

@Syntheonpcb: doesn't work
me: welp. time to die

@Dennis Terrell you are welcome :)

im guessing when you order it does not come with the parts just the board

I'm following this!

For analog I think it's a bit tricky as its more math to identify parameters.... 🤔🤔🤔

i dont mean to be off topic but does anyone know of a trick to log back into an Instagram account..?
I was dumb lost the password. I appreciate any tips you can give me.

 @dennisterrell5036  Off topic? Completely the wrong platform!

@Miller Zaiden it worked and I finally got access to my account again. I'm so happy!
Thank you so much, you really help me out !

me infront of any linux terminal for years

It's what I hate from Content creators, they make it look easier 😢

Take 2 udemey courses on it lmao

​ @Gizmo-1337 what course? Name them dude

Bro that hurt so bad 😭😭😭

 @mallvalim  it’s been a year, I gave up.

Haha I’m graduating Electrical Engineering and these things are never taught in my degree (actually only 1 lecture to be honest). I have to learn them from side project, club and co-op myself. I don’t expect school to teach many thing useful nowaday

i feel like youtube is the new university

So true. So many teachers are terrible.  Great Scott and all the other people like him are fantastic.

I laughed so hard!

c'mon we've all tried that

legend is legend

Bruh

Haha

my eyes....

I've been studying electronics and discovered a fantastic website at Gregs Electro Blog (google it if you are interested)

That was really pretty funny!!! 🤣🤣🤣

Looks pretty easy to be honest 🤣

LorneChrones I am entirely new to the whole pcb design thing and I am looking to find where to start e.g. how someone selects components (diodes, resistors, capacitors...) after deciding about the function? Any guidance would be appreciated.

 @ckehagioglou  Did you get any leads on how to select components? I'm also new to this design thing and pretty much confused on how to move forward. I also need assistance on where to get most reliable components as well. Any guidance would be appreciated.

Christos Kehagioglou this should be planned before making schematic. Layout is just the final step

Can I pay you for an hour-long schooling session, please? The amount of knowledge you will drop on me within a simple 60-minute conversation is mind-boggling.

Hmmmmm

GreatScott! You're among the best educators on YouTube. 
I am a mechanical engineer and I watch your videos even though I don't understand everything.

@GreatScott You should actually change the intro to you soldering the leds to a PCB

Hey! Do you know @CarlThatDoesKillPeople?

Make sure to take frequency in to account though!
Traces/planes are mostly inductive. You can increase the thickness to lower the resistance, but you will realise that the inductance hardly changes!

Afrotechmods o look who is hear....

.254 mm

If only I could "Save" a comment much like I can on Reddit/Twitter..

What is that in new money?

I have not any experience with ICs; the most I've messed with circuits is soldering some LEDs, BUT you always get to keep me through the video and I actually think I understand most of it. Well done and thank you truly! You're an example of a content creator!

Best hardware video for an aspiring electrical designer

GreatScott new video - heatbeat over 9000

Thank you, Scott. I am completely new to this and I learned a bunch!

i've studied electronics, i practiced at a company which repaired TVs (among other things)  - the beginning of the plasma screen era, the first SMDs appeared back then - and I was never taught that I could solder SMDs with hot screwdriver (only the hot air gun, - they said - method was possible! which...i never advanced enough to be tought that..)
 impressive & informative video!!
 thank you 👏

In deinem Videos habe ich mehr gelernt manchmal als wie in den Vorlesungen. Danke für die Videos!

You really passed from idea to PCB, nice video. I see the bottom layer doesn't have copper fill. Did you had a reason for that? Keep up!

Best intro video for PCB design

90 degrees bends... It's an issue of EMI and wave propagation problem, as well as manufacturing hazard. Electrical wave passing through the copper prefers a straight line, as almost everything in physics. 90 deg bend causes the wave not to propagate properly, some of the signal might be lost or reflected. It may also interfere with other signals in the circuit. This is essential for high speed signaling where you have to keep the trace of the said width to set it to proper impedance so it can match the rest of the circuit. For the manufacturing, the more acute the bend the more risk of resulting track being "over-etched", which means being thinner than expected. With thin tracks it could lead to bad signal integrity best case and an open circuit worst case.

The other thing is that a good practice is to make the supply voltage traces as thick as possible for low inductance and low voltage drop across the trace, especially with currents closing to 1 amp and above.

I know nothing about pcbs, this was eye opening.

Great work brother

As commercial as this video is (in a tasteful and subtle way), I personally still love it. You share the best things on this channel and it’s always a joy to watch.  :)

Seriously, this is one of the best videos on PCB design. I am proud to be your patreon. Keep it up!

Finally made my first PCB!

Un millón de gracias por todos tus videos! Yo soy Ingeniero en Energías, pero siempre fuí un apasionado de la electrónica y he hecho algunos PCB's que la verdad, da mucho gusto verlos funcionando.

hi scott just commenting to let everyone else know i like your videos because

Dhanyavaad Sirji

greatscott is really great for his public service to spread his own wisdom to others. best wishes to continue you work. thank you for your video.

As an electrical engineering student I love you channel.
I am just leaning about designing circuits and... Your channel gives me lots of informations and new ideas.

Thankyou for this.  There needs to be more videos like this on youtube.

No big reason for that. I simply did not needed a copper layer there.

Okay. Just some info from my experience. I work a lot with this NRF24. We've made some tests with the spectrum analyzer and useing PCB antenna (not the power amplified antenna one) we've noticed way less errors and less noise when a GND copper layer is placed on PCBs. Keep up!

 @greatscottlab  C we d a Zaza farfetched 4fv that

 @greatscottlab  I have a circuit and it's schematic and board layout that was done years ago on paper. Is there any way I can give that to a PC board manufacturer and have them make a board from that without redoing everything. There is no surface mount and single side board.

This is a great example of how to make good paid content while keeping to the spirit of the channel! 10/10 Good job!
I've unsubscribed from a tonne of people who, when they have a large enough following, switch to paid reviews of items which are only barely related to thier channel content.

@Skuldugery Dave of EEVblog once mentioned that it's a common practice to have that, as they basically act as a capacitor.

 @Skulduggery1001  in most situation it is better to have a vcc and a ground, but it really depends on the situation. In case of the RF antenna it is important how long your traces are and how big the ground layer is. If you want, i would do a pcb review if you have one to do. Im working in this business for about 10years, so maybe I can help. If someone else have question, ask :D

 @nicorudolph5898  I have so many questions.

I follow your channel too.. So nice.

It's called a ground plane. Helps reflect radio signals better.

 @Skulduggery1001  it's always better to have 2 ground planes, unless you really need a power plane

Skuldugery I'm not sure how much effect it has, but if you use top and buttom fill with positive and negative voltage, it has certean amount of capacitance, very small, but at sensitive circuit you might want to know about it. Some computer manufacturers use this as capacitors.

Keep up!

Keep up!

Hey bro.. could you making project with oled 0.92 or 0.96 ???

Can you suggest the thickness of FR4 PCB thickness for testing of component operating at around 3 GHz.

two senpais, one video.

Yeah, that's just a bad design.

Does this actually matter for analogue signals or digital under a certain speed?  I thought this only started to matter in the higher MHz region.

As I understand it it also created acid pools at 90 degree bends

But he didn't do any 90 degree bends so people in the comments wouldn't do EXACTLY WHAT YOU DID.

 @ryanmickelwait1521  I think one person should do what he did so that any newbies in the subject can know the reason for that.

Excuse me, are you saying physics is homophobic?

Thanks for the feedback :-)

0:24 LOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOL

You are GREAT, Scott.

3:58 - that darn greedy LED.

This is what I am looking for
GREAT..... SCOTT....😘😘😘👏👏👏

idk why this is so interesting when I dont know anything about everything you talked about lel

This stuff should be given in grade school classes instead of those boring lessons on paper :)

Great Scott Fans like here!

I don't really know much about electronics but I'm still learning. Great video & I'll have to watch this over a few times

Where are your clearance settings? Also did you do DRC checks?
What can't you set power net to a specific width beforehand?

I think you should talk about these "safety issues" before drawing your PCB.

VERY good video, you handle all questions i had left . Thank you!

hard laughting 8:55

Fantastic video! I followed your instructions and PCBed my latest creation. Your instructions worked perfectly, and my creation works beautifully. Thank you!

This is a great video on the general process of PCB design. I really like that you have included the step of creating a plan in the form of a block diagram. Though I'm disappointed that you've left out the importance of design rule checking. Every beginner will benefit from the use of DRC! It can point out some blatant mistakes likes shorts, unrouted nets, holes that are too close to each other, etc... This will save you time and money.

The design itself could be improved in several ways. For example: 
C3 is placed in a way that beats its purpose. 
The die pad of U2 should connect to GND and have a bunch of vias connecting to the bottom plane to help with heat dissipation. 
The RF module should be placed so that the antenna is somewhere near the edge of the PCB pointing away with no copper near it. If you place it right above other components and metal objects it will shorten the range and degrade the signal.

If you haven't, go watch some Robert Feranec's videos. He has a ton of tips on good PCB design practices and techniques. This can save you some money and headaches in the future if you know what to pay attention to.

Excellent. So much covered in a short time.

I just laughed my butt off at the part where you put the SMD onto a perfboard and made a globular mess of the pins :P

I have actually made my very own PCB with this tutorial, and it has worked the first time off. Not too complicated but it is great to see your design worked first shot. I have since made revisions 2 and 3 to improve on my design. And bonus, it looks professional.

I want to see all the papers on which you drew all those schematics.

You have given me an answer for a question that I had for a long time, thank you very much.

I decided to give JLCPCB a shot. They charged me 16$ on my otherwise 2$ order for color.. I needed black for light reflection properties..

I was just looking for a video like this, not going into too much detail but showing the overall process, but just enough so i got a better understanding and the main pointers needed. Thank you for this, it's a gem among the many electronics videos on YT, you information and production level is always spot on!

imabeapirate OMG LOL WTF LOLOLOLOL

ROFLCOPTER

I strapped on my lolerblades and let it rip on that one

 @imabeapirate  FUCKING BEYBLADE BEYBLADE LET IT RIP

xD

Lol...how on earth did you spot that

Probably because you learned something

oh yeah yeah

its because he can explain it well in perfect slow and understandable german accented english.

All the electrons will fly out!

DRC; Clearances; Power Track (Net) Width; etc
He missed all of these stuff...

Well you're paying normal price because you're falling out of a discount panel where you get combined with other orders, and after the PCB is made it's broken apart. If you ordered 10 black PCBs the size of their panel, like 60x40cm, you could expect them to cost the same regardless of lacquer colour.

Siana Gearz Nope, I was actually falling in the special tariff. The point I'm trying to make, is that they charge a flat amount of money to change the color, regardless of how much you need

I don't see a problem with that. I mean they still have to batch you separately from whatever colour they offer as a discount, and the pricing structure is intended to make sense with small and prototype sized orders, if you want them to mass manufacture, you call or write them and they'll make you a special discounted price, or if they don't, someone will certainly be able to undercut them. Fundamentally the same with other finish and thickness options, anything for which there is no ultra batch is effectively more expensive in small quantity.

There is a great video showing inside the PCB plant. Then you will see why ;)

Don't use colour then if you are after the 2$

GreatScott! I just found it a bit strange that they charge a flat rate for color, no matter if you buy 5pcs 5x5cm pcb, or 10000pcs 40x50cm pcb, it will always cost you 16$.

Your soldering needs work, but I like your attitude and results. Thank you  :) 

But.. what does your thingy do? (I missed that)

I must say Great Scott this is the BEST PCB video I have ever watch on YouTube. Am your biggest fans I Love You

Not enough attention was paid to the GND... some of the GND connections would not handle 1amp current you could stitch GND near IC'S  using via's

You are very thorough with your schematics!

Why noone of youtubers DOES NOT tell us about 10$ shpping costs, just the 2$ CHEAP PCB BOARDS.
I know 12$ for 10 pcbs is not expensive, but everyone is allways talking about 2$.. deam

im not an electronics engineer, just some guy who knows basic electronics. But this video made me understand how you  could basically create a PCB in 11 mins. AMAZING

0:25 seems legit.

I have recently got into electronics as a hobby.  I had a class on electronics in high school 31 years ago.  It's amazing how much easier it is to design and produce your own PCBs now.   Computers and the internet have changed how we do almost everything in our lives.

I want to do this for a robot module that I designed and then sell it on ebay, but is it legal to do that? At what point do you need CE or UL certification?

Thanks Scott, for yet another great video.

Pretty neat tutorial!. Once you shoot for more advanced projects, I would always suggest to go for 4 layers, so you can have two signal layers (front/bottom), a dedicated ground layer and a power layer inbetween (if single supply - for dual supply, use the back for the secondary voltage). This also gives you more freedom while routing. One thing I have missed was an extra note about bypass caps for active components. I have already seen people designing PCBs either not thinking about bypass caps or if they did, they "grouped" them together in a single block, far away from the active component. Rule of thumb: Put 100n as close as possible to the power pin of an active component.

Will be studying videos of working on pcb designing for motherboards. I just actually today got a job working for a company I am excited. This is my first time ever doing this and all the help I can get is highly appreciated. Got this weekend to do this test thanks for the video and creating  this.

You don't need to go full SMD when you only want to use a few SMD ICs. There are little adapter pcbs on ebay for very cheap to fit an SMD IC into a through hole world.

JLC has taken over the entire Electrical DIY filed.

Yeah, the PCBs cost $2, but shipping to the USA costs $18 over DHL, which is conveniently hidden until well into the order process...

This was perfect. It told me everything i needed to know and also clarified trace width for me.

Been here since 200k🙂👌

Just made my first PCB :) Thanks GreatScott you are awesome!!!

Noob question: Isn't t the voltage divider for measuring the battery voltage draining the battery?

Long time was waiting for this tutorial, Excellent

That's a good point. In many cases the ground fill won't reach all ground pads, and even when it does, it may not be a low impedance connection...

Wow danger alert, that could actually make a difference when charging the battery

Guys, I would love to hear more about this, what do you mean by ground vias?

You're right. Always make ground vias. Especially around (and even under) microcontrollers.

Lagger Onesixfour  i mean make bottom layer gnd and use vias to attach the gnd bottom layer to the top using vias next to ic chips and regulators and so on

If I understand this correctly, it would make sure you have a good enough ground connection. Around the IC's there will be a lot of thin traces of ground (between the traces for the other IC pins), and the current for ground could take the path through one of these thin ground traces - which might not handle the current.

Using vias would connect directly to ground on the bottom layer, which has much less traces than the top, and would therefore consist of a good ground connection.

what do you mean by "ground vias"? could you explain the problem a little more

True. With this technique it can also happen that your currents take some ridiculous path back to the source. This can cause all sorts of problems. Always make sure to provide the shortest path.

Hmmm... makes sense now, so that helps with what? Interference and what else?

Would it make sense to manually create the GND connections, and THEN add ground to everything? Would that make a difference?

Yeah and because of that, most importantly, you will probably never pass any EMI/EMC testing that way

ats89117 that's actually a really good point

When i design anything i always have in m8nd that my bottom layer is for GND it also helps as a heatsink for ic chips and helps with interferance and so on. And if i run 1amp i always leave the tracer bare so i can tin it if need be later down the line. Why the pcb in the video may be tested and work does not mean it be ok. Iv made the GND mistake when first designing and eventually it will trip and the GND tracer will burn like a fuse.

Hey guy can you work on a prototype we have?

No, that's their regular price for small PCBs... I know, it's ridiculous. I've used their PCB fabrication service a few times already. And for larger boards it's not a lot more expensive either, I think I payed something like $10 for 120x100mm PCBs.

Shipping probably differs depending on country of origin...

2:39 our guy pays for fast delivery 😱 so least he shows u in this video

Depends where you live! Only £5.64 to UK

I've looked around at other PCB manufacturers. Jlcpcb really is one of the best for the price.

Get more pcb to take advantage then, jlcpcb is not recommended for small quantity.

 @johnrubensaragi4125  they literally say on their page that their service is for prototyping.

$22,00 you mean??

Maybe $30,00, just woke up.

Also isn't $2 only for your first order? It's just a loss leader to get you to use their service, they're not actually cheaper after that.

The first time I have ordered I also had to pay 65EUR for the customs on a order of 26USD (24 DHL shipping + 2 EUR of the PCB itself)

 @tuttocrafting  oh... I just ordered something and hope I don't have to deal with customs.

I also have a same question , I design my first PCB but when I ordered they charge me 22 us dollars, why they don't tell shipping only talks about 2dollrs not about shipping

CE is not really testing though, it's just more or less the manufacturer saying it complies with european regulations.

If you stick to battery or USB powered, its fine. You may want to include a disclaimer of liability though.

exectly my question, and the answer is pretty hard to find.

Useless Duck Company you need the ce certificate if you want to sell it in the eu, but you don't need any of those UL, GS or other testing certificates at all

UL/CE certification only matters if you intend your product to be plugged into the wall inside peoples homes, makes everybody sleep well at night. Ever hear of those hover boards that constantly caught fire, usually when recharging?! Not UL/CE certified. UL certification means that your product is subjected to laboratory testing to high levels of durability and quality. But I digress. If your building a module (likely for designing and testing or prototyping), most people buying your module will have the prototype mentality and so will take the necessary precautions to keep your device from burning down their home.

Alex C Yeah, of course, but CE compliance does not necessarily make a trustworthy product.

if you want to NOT get your butt sued to the next 12 lives .... then sell it as is and make certain to mention it is not ul ce  certified ... it becomes the buyers responsibility to ensure safe use of it at that point.

Matthias: yes but you still want to make sure your product actually complies with the regulations (to the best of your knowledge), or you'll be in trouble for making a false declaration. I don't think they'll expect extensive and perfect tests but they will expect you to do actual tests.

I can put "CE" on human waste and that waste is "CE-certified"

Useless Duck Company   until and unless you want your robot to be mass produced (think more than 1000s)it's legal.

Thanks! Should make some PCB layout tutorial videos. So a ground layer can be a middle layer of a PCB and that one ground layer can be shared between all components? How is a ground layer actually grounding a PCB circuit? Thanks in advance!

True

Yeah but when you are using super complex SMD ICs I think you are in a different ballpark already and going full SMD might not be such a big step anymore.

I like those little adapters mostly for experimenting on a breadboard. When the circuit design is ready, I do the PCB step. Most designs need a few changes from the first paper version until they are satisfactory.

To Europe it is around 5 dollar for shipping which is pretty good for me

 @Ouchie  A čo riešite? Kúpte si kde chcete, alebo si to sami vyrobte. Skúsenosť s čínskymi výrobkami je tragická a používajú veľmi nekvalitné materiály a súčiastky.  Z Číny a Poľska nikdy nič!

Yea and when customs steps in its a pain! I had to pay more of the customs than the PCB itself!

Awesome. Thanks for watching.

I been here since 100k and I'll always be here. Thumbs up for Great Scott!'s videos.

Kau Mohlamonyane 
I'm from 40k 😎

I've been here for a while, but I clearly can't remember since when!

It connects behind the power switch. Meaning it will only affect the battery when the circuit is turned on. Also I used 13.3kohm in total. That will only draw little current.

GreatScott! Thanks for clarification!

Yes it is. And it is completely unnecessary. The proper way to do this with an Atmega328 is to connect the battery as an external ADC reference and then measure the internal 1.1V reference against the battery. That way you will get a number telling you how big a portion of the battery voltage is 1.1V and you can calculate the voltage back from that. For example if the battery voltage is 4V, you will get 1.1/4*1024=281, if it is 3V, you will get 1.1/3*1024=375 and so on. If you want to get the battery voltage you simply do 1126.4/<ADC measurement> and get the voltage (e.g. 1126.4/281=4V). In reality, you'd avoid the division by putting the ADC constant calculated above in the code. In this case he wanted to test for 3.4V, so he'd just need to see if the ADC result was higher than 1.1/3.4*1024=331. 
Requires no external components and draws no current when the voltage isn't being measured (and even then it draws way less than the resistors). 
But this is the GreatScott channel, so what did you expect? Not good design, surely.

It smells like advertisement

Excellent tutorial. Most complete and systematic video on idea to pcb. Thanks

Actually, 90 degree corner is not a problem. The problem with 90 degree was that some older PCB EDA tools didn't support it, and it could crash it. For all other things, 90 degree corner is fine, as long as you don't run through it signal that has frequency of 9-10 GHz or more.

This tutorial is just perfect. Well explained, not boring with details and straight to the point. Keep it up!!

Nice video as always!! 👍🏼😜

I learnt some useful procedures here. Thanks.

Another excellent tutorial!!!!! Probably the best electronics tutorials, by far!!!! Thank you for sharing your knowledge!!!

after a year away from EasyEDA s/w one is faced w/ many changes.   frustrations being on the learning curve again.  your vid' was just the cure to inspire me with  can-do-ability .  and has be back on  track .  hooyay for GS

Thanks for this great Video Scoot!!!

Great Video very concise and informative!

the schematic you drwing hand is very well!

Amazing job and well explained :D

Great video. Very easy to understand and follow.

Excellent explanation. I wish all tutorial videos were this clear.

Thank you a lot.

i did all steps thank you for your excellent explanation

This video helped me out SOOOOOOO much! I've been designing electronics for years, but I'm very new to this software! Thanks to this video, I've figured out how to design PCBs very quickly! Love this channel!!!

i like your'e mindset... if you are going to do something.. do it properly !!

gz on 800k subs dude

Just what i was looking for!! Tnaks.!

GreatScott provides superior content every week. If he makes a few quid from videos like this then I say good for him.

Honestly, who cares? The video is great.

A very pleasant, useful and enjoyable one

what does advertisement smell like?

In the end this video is sponsored by JLCPCB. Like all my recent videos and it is also mentioned in the video description. But honestly, the combination of EasyEDA+JLCPCB+LCSC is just so easy to use and budget friendly. I am very happy that I can work with them. I have all the creative freedom that I need and can make a living from creating these videos.

Yeah the combination is just awesome, jlcpcb is dead cheap and you dont have to struggle with all the package sizes because all lcsc parts are already in easyeda. You can even save shipping if you combine orders, how nice is that

But 90 degree corners are so ugly!

when you get into high speed circuits ... corners are BAD ... even angles are bad ... always smooth rounded traces otherwise you making micro vaccuum tubes on your pcb at the same time as you make the circuit ... and then stuff gets weird fast ....

can 90 deg turns pick up rfi more easily?

Excelent step by step how to start a production of a new product after development. I´m starting as a electronics product developper and it help me a lot thanks :)

Seriously you are the best

Good for a basic understanding

Finally! Thank you for the great video!

thanks great scott for the upload , it was cool

Thank you for introducing me to EasyEDA/JLCPCB. The two websites have helped me out a lot in one of my projects. Very useful and helpful. Thank you!

You're approaching a  million subscribers
Haleluja
Great job☺☺☺

I enjoyed to watch this video :)
Thanks GreatScott !

GRANDE, SCOTT !

Excellent channel. Thank you.

A really good video on the whole design process including ground plane.  Loved it.  Thanks!

Fantastic vid! Love this channel. Excited about getting into this field

Excellent video, well done 👌

This video is really helpful. I like look of those boards too! Thanks.

I'm a fan of GreatScott coz I learned a lot from his video, keep up the good work dude, share knowledge for a better world

As always, a great video

Instant subscribe! Fantastic video!!

Wow, what an inspiring video!! !I've been meaning to make my own PCBs for years, now I'm going to start...one something really simple! Awesome channel!!!!

I've got to have a go at this, nice video,thanks for producing  it.

learned more from the ideas in the comments than from the video...;)

Your paperwork (namely schematics) - is unbelievably professional and "neat"

Lol Scott your upload schedule is almost perfect. You upload ebike videos as I am building my own and now this PCB as I am designing one!

Great video! Very informative. Keep up the content I really enjoy watching.

A good tutorial about PCB nice....

Good tutorial.
Greetings from Brazil.

Sehr geil gemacht! Daumen hoch :)

You are best youtuber!!!!

it all makes sense now 😲🤯

This was very much needed👍👏👏

I'll like ser Your proyect  finished!!! Great vídeo.

I learned alot from this video. Thousands of thanks to you😊😊😊😊.

This was really inspiring tutorial. I think I have to watch this video again when I design my next project :)

Yours vídeos are Amazing!!!
Congratulations!!!

This is a very useful video. One that I anticipated to come from you. Thanks again.
I'll try LCSC for parts, been a big issue all this while to source parts.

Excellent presentation
Please keep it up

very nice !! some very useful tools in there

Love your videos ! so much amazing stuff to learn :)

great video bro

thats great video lots of knowledge

Really great tutorial, well presented and truly informative. GBU GreatScott!

Excellent tutorial, thanks.

you really help full for videos  new idea on PCB design ..

This video is amazing! I love it!

Thanks for video. Really good.

very nice video. again. loving them all.

thats one hell of a sexy pcb board

This was great. Thank you!

Well explained, cool information,thanks :)

you do it like a professional!!!!

Very informative. Thanks. I'll try it this weekend and use it in my upcoming project.

Great video as always

Oke, GREAT SCOTT!! My brain almost blow up..

Hopefully waiting for 1M Subscriber

I wait for this movie! Thanks

nice video ...Excellent tutorial. !

Fascinating stuff ! Cheers :-)

That was great.  Yes I learned a lot.  Thank you.

Thank you so much for this video! I have been struggling to get a PCB gerber file made with other programs, but EasyEDA looks like it's exactly what I need.

As always.... Great!!!!
Thanks.

Absolutely brilliant !

simply amazing,amazing

Awesome tutorial! Strange Parts did a tour of the JLCPCB factory recently. It's pretty neat.

Million like for you

What a badass, drawing your schematic with a permanent marker

great video! thanks :)

Amazing video i'm learning so much, thanks man.

Great Video !

Thank you!!! Needed!!

Very cool! Definitely want to try one of these someday...

I. LOVE. IT.

What an excellent vid

I really appreciate.....I am electrical engineer

Fantastic, dude. I'm going to try it with a simple circuit someday. 😊

A life changing video 👌

Excellent project

this guy is the real-life Mumbo Jumbo

😍🤓 Beautiful!!

brother love from india..!!

Fantastic! Great job!

I'm also interested in electronics engineering tq u Great Scott u done very well 👍👍

Awesome video!

Great Scott you are really great bro. Grettings from Turkey. Your videos are helpfull.

Searching for a video on designing schematics. Best results come up first :)

Sweet! Nice job. Maybe a follow up video of the things that didn't go well - they can be even more helpful.

great video tutorial thanks

U sir are a genius. Thanks for the tutorial...

I defenetly enjoyed your Video, your Videos are great, theres so much to learn, your english is really god and your voice ist Just perfekt.

Thank you for great service

I don't know if you've made this video just because of my request from a few weeks ago, but this is exactly what i was looking for! I guess it's time for my first PCB-Ready Project now ;)

Very good job 👍,  well done

Nice.you explain very well.

nice video !!! i realy like your vids

Thanks a lot for your toturial vedio

Very very nice video awesome

Thank you & Best knowledge💜

Wow amazing video

Wonderfull !! Great video !

Thank you!

Thanks for the video, that was super informative =)

Great tutorial!

Thank you very much

THIS IS SO FREAKING HELPFUL
I love you bro no homo

Good overview.

Thanks for sharing 😀👍

Nice One! I usually use fritzing for pcb and circuit design, because online there are a lot of component created by community.

Amazing 👏🏾

Yes Master.

For trace width, Vcc > GND > Signal traces.

GREAT VIDEO!!! Don't forget to add some good flux while soldering for some beautiful joints. 😁

Waiting for your video

I watched this video about two months ago. Since then I've tried out EasyEDA und JLCPCB. EasyEDA turned out to be a bit cumbersome to work with because slow page loads often interrupt the process and it is also too constrained for what I wanted to do. I've since then switched to KiCad. Great program. Also works nicely on my 12'' MacBook with the touchpad. The PCBs that I ordered from JLCPCB were of excellent quality. Every board worked perfectly.

Thank you Sir...😊😊

0:25 I laughed so hard

This is perfect!

He is left-handed. I noticed just NOW!

Dude!  Thanks for showing me this stuff.  I've been stuck using fritzing and a stupid old version of spice.  This is way better.  Slam dunk dude!

Brought to you by JLPCB

that was so cool

Thank you! sincerely

Amazing video!

Great video!

Stranger Part made an awesome Video about the Factorys from jlcpcb.
by the way huge fan !

Hello Scott! Great video and love the way you articulate. I have been viewing your videos on you tube and find you to be a real professional. Good information on developing the design from conception to finish product with the aid of free on line software. Most of all having the pc board perfected for the low price of $2. I had been considering purchasing a small three axis CNC mill and drill  designed for the purpose of plotting, milling and drilling pc boards. The process you present here is a great cost savings. Happy to have found your channel and have subscribed.

Useful, thanks.

Awesome 👏

Just ordered 5 pcs with shipping to Europe for 4 quid haha. If I’d have known it was this cheap I would have done this a lot sooner. Thanks for the video!

So easy!

dude, you awesome. thanks.

This was a great watch, concise and to the point, but descriptive  enough to understand everything he’s doing… all while showing you good places to get the parts and website to design and order the boards. I have no experience with this and plan on doing a lot of trial and error designing a board to function exactly how I intend it to but I’ve been learning a lot online and on YouTube and I’m gaining confidence because of videos like this that I’ll be able to design something that will power and send something into a certain position from pressing different individual buttons and then wire the on and off to their own respective buttons. Any advice for things like this is appreciated, we want to wire up a wire stripper to run off elevator buttons so the button panel looks like the interior of the elevator using the 2,4,6,8 and so on floor buttons to strip that gauge wire and have the call buttons separate for on and off and have the top digital screen read on or off instead of the floor number it’s on. We didn’t get a digital screen from an elevator though we have to order one. We just got the even buttons from 2 up to 20 the door open close buttons and the up and down call buttons. We are trying to think of basic things we could build to design a board for to perform cool tasks in the little shop we are working on building. Again, any ideas are much appreciated lol.

Nice tutorial. Typically left handed sense of humour.

Very informative thanks

Wow very interesting, you just made me subscribe 😉

THANK YOU

Dude seriously amazing video! I needed some custom PCB's for a Gamecube portable I'm making but using perf board is way to bulky. This is going to save me so much space and headache when it comes to finishing everything up.

,, Amazing 👍🏼👍🏼😇🤗

Very nice. You forgot about 01005 component size

LOL, I was thinking to make a video with the exactly same purpose but using home made PCB and end with a proper enclosure made with 3D printer.
Nice video, dude!

Thanks!

I just got an ad for JLCPCB.

Very nice

Thankyou!!

Among the 10 firsts!

I prefer to design my projects in KiCad, and order from whichever company i prefer at the time.  --Thank you very much for all of your presentations. top notch work. i have not yet found an error in your information or teachings.

AMAZING

Excelent Great Job

some people are just good at teaching

that smd is like excuse me wtf

Congratulations on 800,000 subscribers!

Where were you 10yearas ago?!!! Excellent info.

Super!

Thank you,you should get a Nobel prize. I’ll be doing their tutorial soon, and starting simple with some boards for ws2812 arrays. Keep up the outstanding work you’re a legend my son.

This is incredibly comprehensive for beginners like me who have never "productionised" a circuit.

This video really helped me! Thanks so much! I used the auto router and it actually worked perfectly! Except for one tiny screw up that came upon me even before I used the auto router. But I just removed the trace and downloaded my gerber files. You just have to click a couple extra boxes that warn you there is a missing trace.

You are great really great

Before watching this, I was still cautious of attempting my own PCB design. I've worked on perfboard, but so far haven't touched an actual Gerber file generator software. Years ago I saw a colleague's PCB file open, looked at all the crossing colored traces, and thought it would be way too complicated to try anytime soon. Your video makes PCB design seem much more approachable. Of course I'm sure there are lot of intricacies to the best practices behind PCB design. Still, thanks for breaking down the general process and giving an example. I'm looking forward to attempting my own board design with SMD components in the future because of this video.

Perfect

A refresh of this video, using JLCPCB's SMD service, might be very helpful for people who are just getting started... like myself 🙂

Congratulations on successfully completing the project. 
A small suggestion, you could have also showed how the finished product worked!!!

Excellent

Nice bro

Thanks

Exactly! I was using perfboards for a project, but there were too many connections. I knew a PCB was the way to go, but I had no idea how. I used this tutorial and made it.

I know a lot of people think etching your own board is out of style in 2022, but I still do it when prototyping. I can knock a board out in 30 minutes and make sure it works the way I've designed it (in case I made a mistake in converting the schematic to an electronic format, for example).

It's also nice to see the board in real life to see if your design is going to create any issues in the assembly portion of your project, or maybe the placement of your USB jack isn't close enough to the edge of the case, etc.. Using thin magazine paper with an iron works perfectly fine. I've tried the special transfer paper, and magazine paper works better!!

thank you!

very fun

Awesome video. Nobody will hate you if you do 90 degree bends!

Thank U man :)

Scot You should do an electronic training from 0 to hero...I would pay!

I Liked it sir

amazing!

Genious

Been there done that; You get a free Pen too! It's not bad either.

Scott I ain't sure if it's possible but as an electronics enthusiast I would like to learn some things about realistic LC circuits in depth . Such as how the feedback system works etc . A tutorial made by you would be extremely helpful I think

What a nice video, I'm dead❣️

Hi, your video was very helpful to understand the whole process in few min. Please make a video on " How to read datasheet of any microcontroller and build a development board ".

is wery naise your all video  
am stading this 1 bay 1  sooper speeche 
am happy too waching this video

inspiration

If only you weren't sponsored by EasyEDA, you'd be using circuit maker ! The auto route function is amazing

Thanks sir ❤

Super

Great project. Please make high power brushed esc next time!

The PCB kindda looks like Pickle Rick :)

I will.

Your pen very nice

Also make a video tutorial on enclouser design .

I would love to see some KiCAD and FreeCAD tutorials

It is great from you if you can do some detailed tutorial for PCB design and Schematic design as well
Thank you

I never learned this in Engineering College.

"Thank You", thank you very much 😎 Your presentation, was REALLY Really really good 😎

This looks really good! I'm gonna try this out 😃 (maybe take a little break from OrCAD)

greatt design

My last order from a China PCB fab house took 37 days - long enough that when they arrived I had lost interest in my project, so I was skeptical about "and in a week, I had 10 copies of my board".  I'm on my 3rd order with JLCPCB, the first two arrived 6 days after I ordered, and my 3rd order arrives today, on day 5.  I don't know if they sponsored this video or not, but EasyEDA is easy to learn/use, and the fabrication process is REALLY fast and cheap... thanks for the heads up.  With the limited time I have for electronics tinkering, I don't even bother breadboarding now - I just do a quick schematic and lay out a prototype PCB and order it.  When it arrives, I put it together to see if it works (so far, so good), and then I copy the schematic into my main project, update the PCB with changes, and place parts and traces.

feels more like an advertisement for JLCPB

thx u

good bro

Спасибо

I once read all these are symbols/Sigils for demonic spirits, the following year, Stranger Things came out.  

Amazing video, thank you!

8:00 a while ago, about a decade or more, I did a few PCBs thinking ECAD would neatly autoroute all tracks. I ended up manually creating the tracks and even confirming GD&T of components. Some things never change! 😅

Pease do a video on garage door rf remotes,reapeating and fix tipe and explain cloning

Thinks

One thing you missed is to make sure your ground planes actually connect to each other and there are no isolated islands with ground connections. Usually the easiest way is to just stitch the top and bottom ground planes to each other where needed but also might be a good idea to also add some near any decoupling caps and larger power ground pins.

I am not a pro though, this is just what I've learned over the last 6 months of getting in to PCB design.

I love your videos. I feel you could teach someone who to do a head transplant if it involved electronics :D

Complimenti

no sabia como hacer GND copper area, gracias !

Don't fogret to explain us everything about SMD components in a future video

For me, the decision to make PCBs isn't usually "my protoboard works so well I want to make more".. It's usually "my bad soldering is probably the reason my protoboard isn't working" :P

By the Way: Congratulations for 800k Subscribers! 
In Germany you wouldn't get so much attention :P

I've been using KiCad to design my PCBs that I then order from OshPark. I'll might have to try this workflow on my next design and compare.

An idea for the power managemet:
When battery is discharged down to critical, for example, if forget to turn it off, then it continue to discharge, since voltage regulator, the voltage divider and LEDs continue to drain it. So, if the device left somewhere on a shelf, the battery can be damaged after a day or two.
So, the idea, to power the MCU directly from the battery voltage. NRF24 inputs are 5V-tolerant, so they can be connected directly to the MCU. So, voltage regulator will power only the RF-transceiver, which can be fully powered down, by the MCU-controlled "EN" input of the regulator, or using additional MOSFET.
Using this approach, you can also replace linear voltage regulator by a DC-DC switching converter, set to 2.7V output (for logical outputs of NRF to comply with required 0.6*Vcc at the MCU, powered from 4.2V). That will decrease overall power consumption in active mode, therefore, increase how long battery lasts.
Also, this approach let you to get rid of the voltage divider: instead of comparing the divided voltage to internally regulated 1.1V, you can compare regulated 1.1V to the Vcc voltage, i.e. ADC result will be inversely proportional to the Vcc (i.e. the battery voltage)
You also need a MOSFET to power down the joystick
So, the idea, when battery is drain, after several red light flashing, the MCU can power down whole the schema and go into power down mode, consuming less than 1 microamp, which allows for the battery lasts for years.
Further improvement may allow you not to use power switch at all. The MCU can disable transceiver and go to power-save mode after some time of inactivity, just occasionally once or twice per second pooling the state of the joystick.

"and everyone in the comments section, will hate you" the way you said that just about made me loose it, thanks for the laugh, and thank you even more for the great video.

Thank​ you​ very​ much.​ I​ wish​ I​ could​ get​ my​ money​ back​ from​ university, and​ pay to​ you., MY​ LECTURER

Amazing video, very helpful! Definitely gonna use EasyEDA and JLC PCB the first time I create a board design :D
What's the reason behind 90° bends being bad practice? Does it cause problems with etching?

Как у них всё просто ... 
Любую детальку можно заказать , и тебе всё привезут !

Thats a great process, but I am missing step 0, where you use some simulation software to test if things are working. I guess you don't need that if you are a pro, though...

@GreatScott! : Your videos are really enjoyable & honestly speaking I learn a lot from your videos. I must thank to JLCPCB also for that. I need to do some pcbs for my projects, please suggest if you can do it with your combined help as because of my country currency is INR as I live in India. 
Please forget the  negative comments below & carry on what you are doing. We are really getting a lot of help from you & JLC. Please carry on & once again thanking you & JLC  a lot & a lot for such appreciable helping towards us !

👍👍👍👍👍

800k awsome

0:26, adafruit sells high quality, relatively low cost adapter boards for many SMD packages. Like, they're ENIG and on quality FR, and you get 3 of them for $6 for the larger SMD packages, compare this to $5 EACH for a low quality HASL adapter board from other manufacturers. You can get other high quality adapters boards off ebay (also ENIG), but they take forever to ship from China Dx.

90° degree bends on PCB traces are electrically "transparent" (causes no significant change in trace impedance) unless you are working with GHz frequencies or very fast (< 1ns) rise-time/fall-time.

Now, if I can have the components added to the pub too then that is a solution I would pay for

Your handwriting and the picture illustrating the idea are both AWESOME. What pen have you used?

can you make  a video about how to choose a connector for your board?  What are the different types and how do you know which one to use, where to order them, etc.

Cool
#MixOTricks 
#UrbanBoyZ333

As a solcial science major, here are the part I can understand :
Step1

If your PCB has solder plating, it's easier to install SMT resistors and caps by first tacking one side into the solder plating, then solder the other side, and then solder the first side.  The solder plating is just enough to hold the part while you solder the other side.

Hmmm I actually need one of those circuits you made there, I want to make a clutch pedal for PC Sim Racing and making it wireless would be veeeery nice!

Can you make next a video of: Diy or buy TV antenna amplifier

the only problem i still have with these videos that are incredibles is the atmega328 you could have used a smd tx/rx and some other brands that are more used in comercial versions of circuit. you know the fact that nobody would put a arduino in anything we own in our home. but still a very good vid scott

Thanks!

Sir can you make video on your journey about how you started electronics and continue learning , also which books you used what project you did. Thank you

I came, I saw, and I came again.

Nice video, Can you make one on how you made the 3D case?

Please give more detail of abbreviations used or a glossary.

I am glad you did this video, it explained alot of steps which I was not aware of.  Will they provide the components too if you requested and paid for them. Thanks Roger

you showed us a 'scope view of the new PCB's  as you  search for obvious defects.  and i have an eye
out in  your vid's for a more  thoughtful  exam.  to verify that some or all of the traces look  good
with , say,  a ohm-meter check.   or  , for example to solder on the V-reg and apply some V+  and 
measure the voltage out and at the IC pins where reg'd power is used.    

     this approach  has one populate the board in  steps.   then do all  they can to verify  that step
is working ok.    before adding more parts.

      up one level in this quality control effort is to add test-ability to the circuit.  so that once 
finished and there is a problem with its operation one can look at the  added test features
for clues as to the circuits health. 

      this all is to give one a choice with a failed PCB to replace the whole board when
you have no idea what is wrong or any idea how to  tackle the problem except all-or-none

Danke!

Bedankt

0:24 LOL!

Thanks, Great video again! Please, explain how do you actually combine the orders to jlcpcb and lcsc?

How to program it? Nice video!

Thanks! Know it was kind of a JLC advertisement, but a company that has made that kind of a workflow at that price seems like a good company to do business with, so I am generally alright with that. Would be nice if they would expose how naomi wu had an American male engineer boyfriend (possibly husband) for most of the past calendar decade though.

i've been using easyeda + jlcpcb + lcsc for a while now. wish eagle was as easy to use as easyeda.

Man I'm still in the p2p stage of circuitry, I'm stuck in the 50's even though I wasn't even an egg at the time!

Thanks for the support :-)

Thanks for the support :-)

Thanks for the support :-)

Use solder paste + your REGULAR iron.
Add paste on the side where most components will be or most difficult to solder.
Add smd components to the board.
Place your iron with flat side up, and set maximum heat.

go

I like your teaching about pcb design .... I m interested in learning more pcb design... Am new in area of design.... Help me

I would appreciate if you could do a video on tips and precautions for designing PCBs which involves high frequency and/or is likely to get EM interference,

0:24 pero que ven mis OJOS!!!! :'D

Thanks for the comprehensive explaination! Is there an application like EasyEDA for designing perfboard layouts?

Hot Dang Man. Speak Southern.

😍🤩

Deutscher! no wonder I found the pronunciation familiar.

For what it's worth, in many AT uCs, you don't need any external components or pins to measure battery voltage.You can set the input of the ADC to the Vbg bandgap source at 1.1V and measure what proportion of full-scale that is and so get the supply voltage. Microchip have an appnote with the details, but that's about it, really.

Please make a 18650 led checker

Obrigado!

And job description keep telling me to know Altium/orcad ... even with crack.

This is a really nice tutorial as I've been struggling with this subject for a year or so now :)

08:50 "Remember not to use 90⁰ angle bends when layout tracks because everyone would hate you in the comment section"
Ha ha, that was a great spot Great Scott!
Has anyone ever actually seen a track burned off because a 90⁰ angle or is it only something people feel in their stomach?

hello, mate great tutorial, which program do you use to design PCB? please help me

thank you for this best and good video. I just have a question which is   
are the AUTO-ROUTER not good and why!!! THANKS

Wait over thanks @ofsanjay

I recently started learning about circuits , I’m trying to build the Bob Beck zapper , the schematic look pretty simple , but I cannot get the final product to work .

This is a new remote for koowheel electric longboard ?

If you like PCBs you'll, love the game Motorways. No plug, just genuinely loved the game as it's basically a PCB game for cars

Thanks for the support :-)

Hey I see your comment is 2 years ago. I want to know how you have been doing on your engineering and where it’s taken you in the last 2 years

 @yonathank132  Progressing slowly, mainly when the actual need arrives.
I haven't gotten anywhere serious (like a job as an engineer) since that was never my goal, but I did make some useful things like temperature monitoring for my PC (aside from that what it already has built-in) and a custom controller PCB for my fightstick.
Additionally, I am currently (read: been working on it for the past half a year due to lack of time) in the works of creating a PCB for a custom keyboard.

So yea, nothing major but this tutorial did make work on the projects that I do have a lot easier.

How did you choose where to put the passive components in?

Can you please make a diy Geiger counter???? :)

I want to know how I can go from a project Idea down to creating a microchip, any ideas?

Hey GreatScott, unrelated to this video, but could you please do a video about half/full adders and such? I really need to understand them. Thanks!

Sir may you provide tutorials for EMC Design Compliance

Any video on NRF24 , explaining or working of the schematics of NRF24

Don't forget to make things easier after you're done with each copper layer track, to hide each as necessary for rechecking the design.

Damn these JLC PCB sponsorship adds are getting longer and longer :D With all due seriousness though a very nice informative video, thanks.

I don't want to discourage you, but you should definitely start training your soldering abilities specially when it comes to SMD components. Your channel is so great, you give lots of useful tricks and explain things carefully.
If you read this, please check out these:
-Amtech Tacky Flux, available at Rossman Group, intl shipping.
-Soldering station with T12 tips, preferably a Hakko, but KSGER T12 works fine.
-Kester flux core solder that fits your needs
Most of your soldering problems are too much heat (which consumes the little amount of flux super quick) and total lack of flux, which makes really bad connections to the PCB... For the flux cleaning just dump some isopropyl alcohol and a soft brush and you're good to go.
Also you could use solder paste with SMD components if you're not confident enough with the iron
PS: I am not the best at soldering, but I'd avoid those crunchy joints at all costs

You just motivated me to study electronics and computer engineering. I'm from a computer science background but I'm looking to create my own mobile phone logic board. What program(s) do you use to program chips and their ALUs?

hai Greatscott can you do some circuit design for power to connect with pixhawk 2.1, tq for helping this issue

I know this is an old video but just a couple of suggestions (three actually!). Keep an eye on DRC. Same thing with ERC. If you're new to electronics, or just a hobbyist, I strongly suggest you purchase a book called 'The Art of Electronics', you will find it VERY useful! NOTE: I've deliberately not explained DRC and ERC so you can google them yourselves!

brother you can make arduino or other components use make 5.1 channel dolby sound decoder,  please!!

i most like your channel

Hey neat stuff! Any reason why you didn't use decoupling capacitors on the VCC microcontroller?

Looks like a nice little remote control unit.Do you have any documentation on it, yet?  I know there are several droid builders (R2-D2) that would be interested in seeing it.

This is awesome. MIT, UC Berkeley, and 🇩🇪 was ❌❌❌

Hey Great Scott , can you please make a video on "How to program SMD atmega328p ?"

Can yo maybe expand more on how to pick the values for resistors, capacitors, inductors, etc in a future video and maybe explain how to make a circuit successful? I know some circuits have pull up/down resistors or some could have power smoothing capacitors for example but what else makes a circuit work well.

You forgot to add that you can put multiple copies of one PCB on the same board/order to save a good chunk o cash.

Any know the song playing in the background?

how are you sir ji namskar ji

Great video! I followed you system and it works great!
However, is there a method within this system to ensure that your circuit does what you want it to do, that it functions properly, like error proofing it?

Make your intro into PCB!

0:24 Lol

Sometimes I think evaluation boards are also a step for this process.

Aw... why this video came up after my first try (order) on JLCPCB.
I made so many mistakes on my order :| (especially on tracing width)

Great Video anyway.

😘👍😘👍

Thank you for this video! I'm doing some planning and tinkering myself, but I'm not "hardware" educated. How do you find the right parts, transistors (PNP/NPN for instance)? I know the difference, but if you were looking for a NPN transistor, how do you go about finding the right one for the application?

so detailed... hard for me...

现在才知道立创商城还做中国以外的市场~

you really gave me the will to try this out. quick qst here: if the PCB will see up to 18A current flow, i think i need a 10mm trace...how would that work out ?! its larger than most SMD components :/

Hi bro can you make one video audio 5.1 system

Nice video
The only missing piece of the puzzle is where did you make the enclosure for that pcb ?
Is there any company that amkes enclosures that you recommend?

0:24 😂😂

Which means, it's time to do it mysélf now :-D

Dear Sir, the video is awesome, but I was guessing if I wanted to generate similar quality pcb at home, which will be best ??? laser etching or pcb milling and also for uv soldering mask, which will be the best ???? The traditional paste one or the newer uv soldering film which can be attached by heat pressing using a lamination machine ???? Anyway great fan of your videos Sir 👌👌👍👍

How should I approach learning circuits and electronics? Do you have any websites, videos or books that you recommend? By the way great video!

traces should also go also not go diagonally to smd pads to improve manufacturing quality

Sir .. can you make a presentation remote ..??

Can you make a video on converting USB to Ethernet

Very helpful, thank you! Just one thing, where on the lcsc website did you find the analogue stick?

It was hard to see a smd chip getting screwed over perf board xD

Cadence pcb layout  tool is somewhat easier to use.

I should definitely try to go to college before watching this video if I know completely nothing about circuitry huh?

Thank you very much for your detailed explanation about different subjects. If you don´t mind, I would like to suggest a subject for your next video. Energy Harvest. I saw some switches that does not requires battery and are able to send information thru wireless connection to control home devices. It would be great to understand how it works and develop a circuit to do that. I found LTC3588 on Aliexpress that I guess could be used in the project. Thank you once again for sharing your expertise.

I recently built a whole project using JLCPCB. Amazing! Service! So glad you are supported by them! I never would have found them if it wasn't for you!

What is the song starting at 1:48 This song is NOT in the "Music" area in the description. Please reply someone!!!!

Could you take a look at KiCAD? It is a free and open source cirquit design tool that is used and developed at CERN.

I appreciate you posting this video.

I am curious to know what program did you use to create the  in closer ( case) for the board.


Currently I am learning how to use " Shapr3D".

0:24 xD

Thank you so much for this vid!  I always wondered whay software you used to design your PCB's!

Hi. At 10:37 during the inspection, there appears to be a short circuit between the centre pad of U6 and the copper fill. It seems to have been plated AND silkscreened over, indicating early contamination.

Would be a lot better if you told us what software you used! Left us guessing.

hey  its an awesome video.
i want to ask a question. I am a mechanical engineer and recently i had a huge interest for electronics. 
i want to start from step 1 and i actually dont know how to plan the function of a circuit. i know little bit a industrial electronics. so can you recommend me a book for planing a circuit ?

Have you ever had a problem with traces not connecting to a pad even though your schematic shows it should? I had to go back and make sure there was a dot over "every" connection point to remedy this.

Design PCB for my product.

Is there a video of him bootloading and programming this long board ? I am having big troubles with the bootloader process.

How to make gold metal detector used arduino

What are your general settings for track clearance, via diam and via drill size ? You mentioned you use 0.3mm for track width but I'm interested in your other settings.

0:24

Is there a recommended manufacturer that people like that will do the component population and soldering?

T joints are also bad but whutevr.

Hello 
 If i can make a sugestion for a project. Portable hand tool induction heater for heat rust boltsfor example. I hope i dont ask for to much.

Is there a that we just upload picture and it automatically convert into pcb schematic

Hey can you do a diy or buy episode for a car dash camera?
I have a leftover low quality camera from my quadcopter, and was wondering how hard it would be to make one, or worth the price to buy a real dash cam.

What kind of classes can I take at a community college to get a better understanding of all of this?  Usually I can do fine with just YouTube videos but I feel like I can benefit from hands on learning for circuitry design and understanding the physical components..

Nice video like always, are you going to make an update video of the electric longboard project?

And now Google Nexus 5 or Pixel 2 or iPhone X motherboard please. :D

Make a video  a seven segment displays...📟📟

Camera 700d pcb  banao

How did you eliminate the blue lines for Ground connections? so that you could do the copper area.

i cannot find the package for common 2 conection pushbutton, help

I am a cs student. Very much intrested in this field. How do i start?

Please someone send me a complete pdf version on design technics for pcb

Do you have any videos on how to do Step 1?

Would you be able to do a tutorial on programming to SMD microcontrollers? Loved the video!

Logic logic mechanism pcb board

90 degree bends on traces introduces noise on signal lines, right??

Scott I had question who is best e engineer you or mehdi and tell please

why is using 90 degree bends bad practice?

Alberto cornejo i hope so, i want to build my own

Will Parkinson whats the difference to DIP microcontroller? Only the case. So you either add a jumper for programming purpose on your PCB or program it in a socket before soldering.

Is there any one stop service that includes part ordering -> PCB printing ->  PCB assembly(SMT)?

Is it possible to have all pcb Shapes even rounded?

And how can I order the parts with my pcb?

I need a rf remote  for my drone. can i use this??

Sir, for a single layered pcb i  always messed up while doing layout manually... Please give some tips how to do layout manually for a single layered pcb

Led bulp driver 9 watt garber file plz..help

How do you program the functionality into the micro controller?

No testing/simulation before ordering? Explain pls

What if I want to use different packages on one board? Like THT +  2 types of SMD ?

Sir,
can you please suggest me some good books for planning of the circuit or circuit designing
I am interested about circuit designing and I want to learn it..
Sir,
 please guide me something about this.

Can any of you help me with designing a pcb for a rocket?

did u consider controlled imprdance routing and length matching for high speed signals on the PCB?

Can I make the bottom layer a VCC Copper Fill layer?

how to check after the step 3 if the system work ?

Hi could you help me making a dobble timer with 555 and a ossilator for a 8Ohm speaker its planed tu rub by a 9V battery, the thought is that it has a 4sec dilay befor it wil runn the ossilator with sound for 4sec

Hey

Sir I wanted to make a fast charger can charge 6 devices at a time and with same speed .charger like pirl charger how can I do.  I don't no any kind of software can you help

Does anywone know what software did he use to design the pcb?

Hello everyone! Anyone knows if there is any  difference beteween use TPS76933 and ADP150ACBZ-3.3? Thank you!

Great video but I wld like some more explaining to why resistors and capacitors are used!! Thanks!

Like I said, look in the datasheet.

Design the following circuit by using Multisim. The circuit has 4 inputs and 3 outputs as
shown in the figure:
This system is used as a digital lock for a treasury of valuables.
To open the treasury, the user must enter a serial binary password of 6 bits. Each bit is
entered with a manual pulse at the input CLOCK. If the entered password is correct, the
output LOCK is logic 1 and the treasury is open (you may use a green light to indicate the
action). The treasury will remain open if the value at input DATA is still 1, but if the user
enters a 0 at input DATA, then the treasury will close. Don’t forget the pulse to enter the
data!
While if the entered password is wrong, then the output ALARM is logic 1 (informing the
police) and LOCK is logic 0 (the treasury is not open). You may use an orange light to
indicate the police and red light to indicate that the treasury is not open.
The user can change the password by pressing input PR, but he/she must enter the old
password, followed by the 6-bit new password (12 bits total). If the user enters the correct
old password and a 6-bit new password, the output PCh will be logic 1. The user has 2
wrong attempts to change the password, otherwise the output ALARM will become 1.
If the output ALARM is logic 1, it would n

Tolles Video! Ich frag mich grad wenn was falsch gezeichnet hast und 100 falsche Platinen bekommst! Verflixt das wäre ärgerlich!😩😩😩🤘🏻🤘🏻🤘🏻

I've heard about easyeda for a wile but never got around to giving it a go. Wow... placing vias is a pain in the butt. Most eda software that I've seen know that if you change layers when drawing a trace to place a via automatically. Oh, well.

I have a few questions :)

-Can you even get those joysticks as components only, on eBay all of them are already mounted on PCB's?

-To reprogram the Arduino, what pins are needed? Is it just the ICSP header? I have a USB serial TTL module but it only has 4-pins (VCC, GND, TX, RX), is that something else? Should I include that on my board too with the ICSP? 

-What do you need to flash the Arduino boot loader on the Atmega328P or do you get them ready installed? 

-What is the difference between TP4056 and TC4056? The latter is much cheaper LSCS, so why use the TP version?

-Would the copper fill not block some of the signals from the nrf24l01?

-I assume you're using protected Li-Po cells?

Is EasyEDA still the product of choice today in 2024?

Do you have similar animated videos of 
Chip inputs ----- layered circiut functional operational flow --- output displays.
For various smaller sensors --- microchip -- panel board's.

Hello sir can u create a pcb for me?

Why do you not want to do 90 degree angles?

Can I get a dumb down pleaze

So the grounds were connected through the whole top layer being copper?

Would digikey work instead of LCSC

Hey GreatScott, how are you doin'? What clearences you used for your PCB? I mean DRC clearences.

Is there a way to check if the circuit would work before you buy the components ?

do you have a video on how to read Schematic like what is U4

Create projects using Raspberry pi plzzzz.

That software looks suspiciously similar to KiCad

Is there a technical reason for no 90 degree bends? Bcz its shorter than a 90 degree route?

Why should I not make conections at 90°?

please, could someone suggest me what software is good for drawing schematic diagram?

At 11:01 😂🤣 i can find a fun there.  can any body?

Could you please send me a solution to the question

Can you do a video on how and where to design and get custom flexible pcbs

Please explain to me why the power parts and the microcontroller parts were not connected with wires but everything connected together on the pcb board during routing

How do you upload the code in the microcontroller?

I want to make a custom flexible led band, is ther anyone that can make a flexible pcb with my schematics?

can't make this... hhhmmm.... how to buy this? I'm from Philippines...

What are the lead times when ordering components and PCB's. I live in the Netherlands

Can anyone point me to a reference that tells me about package sizes of components. -Thanks

Sir I have dought in electronics.so may i able to request u my problems

i want to make schematic of drive and ics is not in library how can draw it just specify number of pins and package type

HI
I had made a design  but it shows error saying "track to pad " although my connections are not overlapping and else
plz if anyone can help

im new to this can somebody point me to the direction i need to go if im planning to design a pcb for a 3d printer that i can plug into an outlet? U.S. plug....

can you make a video showing how to make a custom pcb with pinouts that is used to connect other daughterboards to this pcb? i cant find out how to tell the software that in some places i need just custom space in specific dimensions and some pins and no components (like resistors etc). there is no video like that in youtube. for example lets say you want to make a pcb that will have pins for an arduino board (arduino has its own board) , a  board with a dc2dc converter and a screen (each item has its own pcb already). how can we make a custom pcb with space for these daugtherboards with specific dimensions?
thank you

you never mentioned how you will program the atmega

What does it mean "more than one netlabel is found in wire"?

So the crossing wires to another circuit can be wires underneath is that correct?

Is a preamp built on common board more noisy than pcb

Great video.  
Question, I'm replacing my ebike motor pcb board.  

The replacement has 7 holes/copper rings for wiring. Bu my original has 6   - 5V, GND, SP, H1, H2, and H3.

The replacement has an additional ring for wiring labeled "K". What does K stand for in this case? Keyswitch, ohms, resistance?  Can't find any information or diagrams online.

And if I solder/connect  the "regular" wires, will I have a problem if I leave "K" unsoldered? 

No info online + could use the help.

/bklyn 👑

From where did you learned electronics?

My first PCB that I made before watching this video (big mistake) had traces that were almost all right angles. I feel so dumb.

Can you tell us a good website for ordering CAD-models made of metal

Do you know where to get the flexible pcbs

What’s wrong with 90 degree bends?

I want to place a XLR microphone socket for my proyect but i cant find it in the libraries, do you know how to do it o maybe where to find it on the libraries???

Hey buddy i need a small help from you

I was working on a schematic today, couldn't find a library for a part. Went to make one and I couldn't make an oval pad with an oval hole in Eagle. :-/

What did you use to create the enclosure.

Which software are use make the pcb design

What about pure analog electronics as IC oriented and micros are a bit easy to program

I need to make a PCB with only copper traces and through hole connections for 5/16 female spade connectors... There's no components, just through hole to mount the spades. Any suggestions?

why is it bad to have 90 degree angles?

Why is it bad practice to rout at 90 degrees?

hi everybody i have a probleme with my bench suply when i turn it on, the voltage go at maximum voltage and goes down at 0 any idie wath's cause it ? The name of it is the "toppower STP 3005" (i finke i make a short circuit with him)

how do i start with a concept idea to working prototype, and what components to use .Can you please make a tutorial for that? This video is close to what i want

What PCB software designer should I get?

Hi what program are you using to design the pcb thanks

Hi buddy, the 'subscribe bell' doesn't work on your channel you may want to submit a bug report to youtube...

Video test đâu ad?

why not just add a ft232rl serial converter circuit and use the charge usb port for data also???

Ok so I know absolutely nothing about circuits or any of this. I am trying to learn tho. Where would be a good point for me to start. ( My goal is to build my own handheld gaming system. EVERYTHING from scratch.)  so is there any place to start learning about the basics? Any projects that I could do that would help me learn? Any help is appreciated. 😁✌🏻

Is it possible to design a computer motherboard using this

What exactly do I look for on the internet to get comfortable with what's being shown, what under what does this all come? Embedded systems?

Who else think imma build a pcb board? Lolz

Great video.
Question.  I'm replacing my ebike motor pcb.  My original pcb has 5V GND SP H1 H2 and H3 components that's I'm familiar with and know how to connect.  

My replacement pcb has these connections PLUS a "K" (relay?) and "-" beside it.

What is relay used for?  Does K mean relay? And, since "K" is not a component on my original pcb does that mean this pcb will not work unless connected to some type relay? 

Tried looking online/Google.  No luck.  Need some help.  Hope u can.


/bklyn 👑

My son wants to go to school to learn electronics. My question is what would you call the major? Is it electrical or computer Engineering or what?

Always a good practice to have a good ground layer with many vias (especially when you're not paying more for it!)

can any body tell me why i am getting  10 pcb from 5 US dollors not in 2 US dollors and why they are applying me shipping cost too and why i can not  able to  combine the lcsc components into same shipping cost

is there a similar service for the enclosure @7:00? what did you use and what company offers to create your enclosure for you?
 i used altium designer for my PCBs but it is expensive this is a better route for quick and small projects.

I think it is also bad practice to exit a smd-pad diagonally, at least thats what I learned in university ...

How is a ground layer actually grounding a PCB circuit?

How come you can't make 90 degree turns when you're tracing a metal path on a PCB ?

Hi

I have a small project and I need an electronics engineer

I can consult with you

Woher weißt du, wann du welchen Widerstand benutzen musst?

So what are you using this board for?

Why so different SMD and THT !? Why?

Is the coding normally done before manufacturing a PCB prototype or after? Help

how do you do the BV bit?

Always the ... with i ?

Is there a way to have the PCB manufacturer do the soldering and component acquisition for you? I was under the impression machines did most of this SMC soldering for production boards. Assume that would cost more but just curious!

Skelton

I think I have the easy eda pro version.

Fantastic video! Looking forward to seeing more of your projects on custom PCBs! :-) The only quibble I would have is that I think you really need a buck-boost converter rather than an LDO to go from any lithium chemistry battery to 3.3VDC. Of course it will take a few more components, but an LDO going from a 3.6V battery to a 3.3V IC is already entering the gray area and having to shut down at 3.4V or 3.5V leaves most of the battery's energy on the table...

I've tried the EasyEDA tool and for some reason it doesn't let me proceed to ordering my PCB I designed.
I've got pins on connectors purposefully disconnected from the rest, because I want to make an adapter which uses Dupont plugs and it has 2 out of 10 empty pins.
But it tells me there are incomplete nets and that I should check them. How to set it to ignore those nets and order the PCB anyways?

What pen do you use for your schematics?

Which software did you use to draw the diagram, please tell me

how did he get in 1 second with all these capacitors, resistors, diodes and transistors

I saw TX and RX on the Schematic, did you build a Walkie Talkie or Radio?

Is jlcpcb also well suited if I need boards for through hole soldering? Jlcpcb cant obviously mount components for me but apart from that would it make sense for a board like that? One issue that I might see is that I wouldnt find  out of the box components in easyeda.

Hi ich wollte mal fragen ob du den "TOOGOO(R) DC 12V Temperatur Regler" vielleicht kennst und ihn eventuell empfehlen kannst bzw. ein Video dazu machen kannst sofern du noch keins gemacht hast. 

Es handelt sich bei dem Produkt um einen W1209 Temperaturschalter, den ich auf Amazon gefunden hab.
Mit freundlichen Grüßen aus Baden Württemberg.

Why are 90 degrese traces bad habbit?

I use protel99se to draw PCB

How can i find job like this like junior engineer ? Money doesn't matter office or home doesn't matter

I got a problem and I don't know the solution (seems simple, though)
The thing is that I have a 3s3p connected to a BMS that outputs 12v and also I got a USB phone charger that was designed to be used in the cigarette lighter of a car. The BMS has a female molex and the USB phone charger has a male molex. The problem comes when I try to use the charger: it constantly turns on and off and doesn't stay on. What could be the problem and the solution?

right angle traces don't matter much! see this video, especially the segment at 14:57 https://youtu.be/STCGzanAyR0

Well the problem blem I hav is that this easy pcb is buggy for me cuz internet do you reccomend something else?

Do you provide the schematic design service ?
I have a rough schematic that needs to be simplified please let me know .
Thank you !

when i go to convert to pcb it says no schematic in project what am i doing wrong

I'm getting 502 for all datasheets on LCSC. Is it just me, or have they all gone?

I have question, is it necessary to build prototype first or no, also is easyeda can simulate the circuit? or you have any suggestions to do simulation, like for example plug in USB device if I make circuit that has USB PORT application. Thank you

Maybe Im just being dumb, but why did you put the switch between the charging ic and the battery instead of between the battery and the 3.3V LR?

The problem I have with making and ordering PCBs is ... once I have a functional prototype, I already get bored of the project and want to move onto the next.

I use a low dropout voltage linear regulator for that purpose (e.g. LP2951).

The LP2951 is fine if you are only drawing a small current, but at 100mA it has a dropout voltage of 0.45V. If I had to use a lithium battery for 3.3V circuitry without a buck-boost, I would just use a shunt Zener diode with a current limiting resistor. This would be acceptable at 4.2Volts and would have no loss at battery voltages below 3.3V...

I'm not an electrical engineer and it would be more efficient for me to just hire someone to help me do this. Anyone have any suggestions how I might go about doing this? I was considering starting at my local makers space and asking around there but if there are simpler ways I would love it if someone could point me in the right direction

0:24 oh god

Can we dwsign both smt and tht components on a single layer...

H

1:22-2:15 How do I plan the function of the circuit? I already know basic circuit analysis and components but don't know how to do step 1? What to learn so I can do what you do in step 1? Would you please give me the exact names of your other videos about step 1 since your videos are too many?

Okay sorry to be *stupid*, can they make PCB in amber(breadboard) color? For retro tech projects. Is it possible to submit a PCB design for MOBO working on C64 repairs with split main board and taking your advice to look into getting replacement PCB.
Great Scott feed back is really needed. Thank you in advance.

I love the idea of professional boards but wonder if the manufacturer is stealing my ideas and then making them in China?

wow

ngl at 0:26 i blurted "what the fuck is that!?"

Bei mir gibt es den "Convert to PCB" Button nicht. woran kann das liegen?

Why u pick 16 mhz crystal?? Depend on whatt? I have read the atmega 328p datasheet maksimum of using the crystal is 20 mhz,but how to know what value of crystal should we use for this atmega?? And what happen if i use 8 mhz? Big thankss

What is the software shown in the video ?

Noob question, where the B- should be connected? Directly to ground? i think so, but not sure cause i didn`t saw any pad for that...

Is it possible to order a PCB from JLCPCB and components from LCSC in the same order or do I need to pay for 2 shipments?

Is there any decent free softwares for simulating circuits and for PCB design ?

Why are 90 degree bends bad practice?

I think i may have reached my skill limit with my current project. The NCV81599 chip that I want to use only has a simplified diagram in it’s data sheet, and it doesn’t show the values of any of the components in the diagram. Because of this, I’m not sure what size capacitors, resistors, or inductors to use.

Are there any methods I can use to find out these values? Or do I just need to go to engineering school by now?

Yeah JLCPCB!, this is only cheap for your first order. I tried to order 1 stencil which a £5.xx for stuartpittaway 2017 DIYBMS, which is the old version, and got a quote for a total of £35.xx including shipping & vat at the end. WHAT!!!!!

As you are living in germany. Dont you have troubles with 'zoll' while ordering these pcbs?

what kind of pen is he using??

like Robert Klauco said that this video is one of the best videos on PCB design

keep up

Are you an electronic engineer? I love working with electronics but do not where to start.

Can someone explain me some things about large copper layers as ground and/or power planes? I see the advantage for sure. However, doesn't it make capacitor between eg any data traces and the copper layer on the other side (or even the same side, "besides" the data lines, I mean) as well, to make the data signal integrity actually worse especially on higher frequencies? The other things: some sources recommends to have ground plane at one side, and power plane at the other. Others denies that and suggests ground plane on both sides. Also, some sources mentions to have a dedicates "star topology" for power. I'm confused here, since so many seemingly conflicting opinions exist. And though I can understand the idea about all of these somewhat, I am already lost when I have to choose what rules I should follow. Thanks!

Why are 90 degree turns considered bad practice?

What pen did you use for sketching that idea at the beginning of the video?

0:25 Seems legit.

Hi

Isn't it necessery to adapt the code if you use directly the MCU?

Wow. 0:24 really hurt.

Why is 90 degree angle bend a bad practice in PCB design ????

what is the best Free/Open Source PCB Designing Software according to you ?

I have an idea for a circuit board to do something specific to my vehicle type... but I don't know very much about circuitry, is there anyone out there interested in helping me design something that can be produced cheaply?

Do I smell a new electric longboard 😏😏

Esk8

Neat, but this is like saying fixing an engine is as simple as:  diagnose, order the right parts, take the old ones out, and put the new ones on.  There's so much more even to just laying out the PCB in the CAD editor.  You could make a 5 hour video just for that, like not layering traces, cuts and copper voids for isolating noisy components, etc.

But also sharp angles (45 degrees and less) are bad practice as are acid traps.

How do you learn what components you need for a certain “function (step1)” I’ve been stuck trying to learn how to make my own schematics. All I can find is how to use PBC software once you already have schematics. Where did you learn about all these configurations and chips?

Trying to make my own game controller. I need to figure out how to get power from the USB to the buttons and microcontroller for them to do their thing.
So words I need to look up are:
powerswitch
regulator
voltage divider
& charge controller.

thats it?

I have no idea what I just watched lol

Hi,  Does EasyEDA also simulate circuits?

What specific software did you use?

Not sure if I want to make another electric longboard video series. I built a new version. But not really for YouTube.

What specific software did you use?

What pen is that?

This is probably too late but I notice that in 2:03 you tell us you make a voltage divider in order to detect when battery gets close to 3.4V. So, you need to get a V(out) of around 3.4V right after R1. 
However, in 6:25, in the schematic, you have R1 =10k ohm and R2 = 3.3k ohm. If we do the math, you get a V(out) of 1.04V. I think the Resistors were swap, is it correct or am I making any confusion? 

All of this taking in consideration a LiPo of 4.2V

I have a question. In the video, when you transfer the schematic to a PCB the Value of the components is transferred, rather than the name of the component. How do you achieve this? My headers are being transferred as P1, P2 instead of SW+ and SW-

HI. I see the video but still not have idea. You looking awesome.. 
I will like to make a project with screen some buttons encoders and lights for simhub. can you help my. please.? i pay

Shouldn't you test the circuit in a breadboard before ordering the PCB to make sure that everything is working correctly?

Hi, I am noob and would like to hear some opinion. After or before you make your schematic, do you simulate using LTspice or some other spice software (please recommend) to check if the circuit works fine for your passive components? Or am I missing something?

Maybe I'm just insane, but I draw my schematics on paper and then lay out the PCB manually, hardly ever using built-in components, creating my own. To use the schematic part of the software, I would need to create two things for one component.

It was a little fast for me, for instance it's not clear when you finish the spring but there are unconnected points, how you choose those remaining traces to get together after the isolation of the rest. By the way, I'm sure it you create a long video with more details people will watch it in full.

what app did you used in designing the schematic?

Unfortunately the order site seems currently broken. When I place my order I get redirected to the account page of jlcpcb which is just blank. The JavaScript console says that some JavaScript could not get loaded (HTTP 404). Non of the email addresses on the support site seems to work. Every email I send returns with an error that the email address is not known.

Which Software you are using?
Easy Eda?

i had no idea that imperial was also used for components... that seems useless

EasyEDA is really easy to use and has a good community repository, nice for hobbyist projects, but I really don't feel like sharing my designs with the Chinese.
If you want to make a professional design, take the time to learn KiCAD or EAGLE.

Did you pay any customs duty?

What software do you use to create those circuits? :)

Did you project actually work, or did it require further revisions?
I noticed that you ran the atmega at 16MHz, 3.3V which in theory shouldn't work.
Also did you manage to successfully program the atmega? Did the SPI slave (NRF24) interfere with the atmega programming? A pull-up resistor on the NRF24 CSn line would have make it more stable.

I actually did this process recently with EasyEDA/JLCPCB. Worked like a charm and I'll do all my projects this way. Can highly recommend it. It was you who first recommended it to me, so I thank you

I'm missing the blocking condensators ;) and also i find not using rectangular corners isn't the whole philosopy for good PCB design.
But still ... Gute Arbeit

Universities: Give us $100k and we give u math problems 

GreatScott!:  watch my videos for $0 and you will become more powerful then you can imagine.....

If I build a circuit with basic TTL logic and LED’S, Do I need GND plains? I assume the GND plains are to reduce noise on high freq. circuits. My current circuit I’m design is not that. Also, by putting a GND. around the thru holes, does that cause issues that could make it easy to short out components when soldering? Last Question- I noticed that some PCB mfg companies will acquire the components & solder them on the PCB for extra $, The question is,  Are they soldered perfectly (machine/robot) or are humans doing it? Will they do a WAY better job the EX: you?

8:59 Why is it bad practice? Why should I care if they do?

2.1 to 5.1

I don't understand half of what you're are talking about in this video. Can anybody suggest I place where I can learn how to design schematics and how to use IPCs (I'm not sure if that's what he's saying, However the thing I mean is the chips). I have basic understanding of electronics tho (ohms law and that sort of thing)

If my project has an arduino nano but i want the pcb to be smaller as possible, is there any way to make the arduino smaller or it would come with holes to solder it in?

90°-Winkel sind nur schlecht, wenn man im Bereich ab 5GHz arbeitet. Ansonsten ist es nur Geschmackssache und vielleicht etwas weniger Leiterbahn

thats sexy as hell!  (no homo)

Which software you are using?

You forgot to mention the Trace width calculator in your description. https://www.4pcb.com/trace-width-calculator.html this one i believe?

We should say thanks to JLC electronic Ltd. , a company from ShenZhen China, providing a powerful online EDA tool and the components shop with low price. Comment from China. Do you guys love "Made in China" ? lol

You should get that mole on ur finger at 1:13 looked at by a doctor

I noticed in EasyEDA, although pins will have a power plane attached to them, they will still route a wire to connect them. Is there a reason for this, or is this just a quirk in EasyEDA? I can get around it by disconnecting the trace then skipping it, but I'm confused as to why it still routes a trace.

Creating tracks that go under semiconductors, especially the microcontroller, I think is not good practice.  Power or high frequency tracks are troublesome.

I think you need to add some more commercials to the video

It is which software

Wait.. I'm confused 🤔.. You say this is the way to go because you can't solder tiny microchips.. but then you end up soldering tiny microchips?

Don't you simulate it once you are done with the schematic? Because it would be a pretty sad event if you have the PCB in your hand but one connection is off...

Great work. About the ground plan, you skipped it a bit, was hoping for a bit more info. Is it good practice for every project or just certain ones? 

Maybe a further video on design considerations for the pcb, best practice etc.

I like your channel and your tutorials, but it really hurts to see how you solder :).
You need to use some flux or less solder material.

700th comment

Truth be told, I am not a PCB design expert. Better google such advanced questions

Thanks GreatScott for another awesome video! :) I'm interesting in how you choose your components, as when I try to find parts for my project I got a little bit overwhelmed of all the available parts on the market.That's why I sometimes find it hard to get the right part (if you have x numbers of parts which could do the job, you need to read all datasheets to get the right one?). Or, if it is  all just about experience, what is the best way to build this up? :) Thanks!

Was hast Du eigentlich studiert? Mechatronik, Elektronik oder irgendwas vom Maschinenbau?

0:36 What did you use?

I hope you are an expert now if yes I have a project for you.

YOUTUBE,why are you throwing so many advance stuff on me!!

I just started and made my first LED light up

rip 0:24

Would you be interested in working on a provisional patent with me?

Sadly JLCPCB No Longer offer free shipping. Even on the "first order"

8:39 what tools are that?

0:24 hardware gore

Editöö

RF

Great work!
Some small issues: The EasyEDA project is not viewable / probably not marked as "public", and measures like 0603 are metric, not imperial (so it's 0.6mm x 0.3mm).

I can't get past the schematic because easy eda keeps telling me I have unfinished NETs. Nothing I do fixes the problem. I tried just putting a single pad on the page and it still said the same thing, and gives me no way to fix it. WTF?

The ass kicker is that I used this exact program to make an arduino clone a couple years ago, and they work just fine right now. I never had this issue before.

Is it really that cheap? $2?

Why is the caption in Portuguese though? 😐

Why aren't you using solder paste + a stencil? it's so much easier and it's like $10 for a stencil and $10-20 for paste. I can't imagine you don't have a hot air station.

You write with two fingers and so do I .

irani hasti?

Na začiatok sa treba naučiť pracovať najmä s drôtovými súčiastkami. Nie s SMD. Na tie je dosť času, najmä pre laikov.

I think experience is very important here.

I fixed the problem with the link. It should now be public

Just a head's up: It's good practice not to place vias under components.

2D schematic.... Design✓
2D PCB............... lay out✓
3D PCB ...,.......... manufacturing.✓
Any video for
3D animation.......PCB layered I/P... O/P !?!?!?

Remote

Pls do u have time for a paid video....I don't have much but I can show encouragement

Diptrace is better than Eagle, just saying

'I did not use 90 degree bends, because that is bad practice and everyone in the comments section will hate you.'

"5 minutes, in and out" was apparently not the right mantra to start with for such an endeavor as creating a PCB

0:25 hurts my eyes

Waves :hand-pink-waving:

Two days ago, my package from JLCPCB arrived. I didn't assemble it yet, but overall Im impressed by the quality of the boards. I thought that pcb will be made on thin crappy and felxible board but it's thick and very sturdy. Definetly worth the price.

"Simple" "easy" yeah..

You're my Jesus and GOD 👁️👃👁️🙏

Nice video as always, I have a question about your PCB: How can you program your microcontroller once it is soldered to the PCB? Are you using an additional IC to program it? Or it isn't necessary to use an additional IC because of the microcontroller you are using

Don't use 90degree angle traces or YouTube viewers will hate you!! 😊

Quick question, likely to be buried. Does anyone know of a more extensive tutorial on the EasyEDA online tool?

I,like the video but I'm very new to pcb design and would need some more detailed information.

gold is used. in cirquites because it is an old metal that does not rust. and fornits conductive properties. since today with new metalurgie. rust-free metal is also fine for a board print. as lomg as it does not rust. like chromonized steel. or tin. or some kind of dentist metal for teeth. maybe all cheaper and rust free, like gold.

I really wnt to see the finish functional product.. did i missed it anywhere?

Just send us your Gerber files we will delivery fabricated pcb at you door step

Great video, I have a related question. I have been trying to make use of the TP4056 temp feature on Pin 1 but it does not work. I have a voltage divider with a 10k and a 10k NTC but the TP4056 does not shut off with high heat. I also note that the data sheet states to ground the pin to disable yet many TP4056 charge modules connect to VCC... any suggestions to get this thermal protection feature to work? How would you implement it into this project?

I don't understand why u people say 'o' instead of zero

Yeah, it looks so easy... I've been at it for like 2 days

You just add programming header pads in the pcb and later you program your mcu. Look into ICSP (in circuit serial programming)
You might have noticed 2x3 pin arrangements in arduinos, that is an ICSP header which can be used to debug your code in realtime(using an IDE and a programmer that supports it)

Theodor Staffas bump

silver has the best guidance and less ohm resitence off all metal. according too the graphics of the chemicle molecule chart "The periodic table of elements". wich can be richley found on the internet. wich shows Valanty values. combination of different metals. can be custome made. like in smithing. like brass wor nikkel wich is a mixed metal for its properties. et ce tera. so can also be a cheaper mix of metals found for electronicle cirquite boards.(Ni Hao, mijnheer de chinese Engel.)

even graphite or graphene or some salts. have electro cobductive properties. graphene and graphite are also rust free. and are a re-arrangement of carbon molecules, or isotopes of carbon molecules. like the material in a pencil. (a wooden stick with some coal in the center too draw with on paper) is graphene or grapbite and electrocle cobductive. there is a vilstift with special ink. upon you can draw on paper a working cirquute board.

or seal the whole "technicle device" in air plastic. too preserve it against the elements. you see. everything is valuable. and therefor need too be preserved. do not throw things away. just. in our country it is illegal too destroy othermens stuff. but also too destroy your own things. because , long ago we where all poor. if we do not think right. we are being poor very soon. again.

I made the PCB for my new electric longboard. Not sure whether I will turn it into a video series.

I ended up working it out... I used a 10k NTC thermistor I salvaged from a laptop pack, a 4.7k pull-up and a 51k pull down. I found I had to detach pin 1 of the tp4056 from the charge module as it must have been grounded underneath to disable temp sense. Now the tp4056 charge module has a (very basic) temp cut-off if the battery is defective..

Buenas a todos hay algo que no entiendo de este esquematico ya que la alimentación al atmega 328 es de 3,3v y está ocupando un cristal de 16mhz pero según el datasheet con esa tensión de alimentación debería ser de 13.3mhz obviamente este cristal no está disponible en el comercio y se ocupa un cristal de 8mhz como es el caso de el Arduino pro mini. El punto es que si lo que digo es verdad entonces el esquematico del @grearscott estaria erróneo o no?

Nice video! Why did you use 3.3V for the  Arduino 16MHz? I thought the 3.3V is only suitable for 8MHz?

How do you  exactly know what you must do?

Why we should not take 90 degree turn with PCB traces, can anyone explain me?

Is there any guy who knows what E-CAD program he is using?

Can you recommend me some books or helping resources which would help me in designing my own custom controller on a pcb?
Thanks!

if you made the whole top copper, why isnt it there? how is the ground connected in the end?

Have you heard of Fritzing for circuit and pcb design?

Can I get your mail Id Buddy. I have some doubts related electronics. I am all time follower of your video.But I have more doubts related electronics, Advance thanks

Is JLC a trusted company and if I am in the US and give my credit card to them is it safe?

What can I do if I want to order presolderd components or even ready to use pcbs?

Is the pcb price increased when you use custom shape pcb?

how would you code the smd uC

Does the cad web site let you export the schematic and board design? If so, what format(s)? Other than gerber, I mean.

If anyone sees this, I would be grateful for a response. At 6:15, he talks about adding ground, Vcc and BV. I thought Vcc was the same as BV, but if there not, can someone tell me the difference?

hello  my name is behzad.
can you please tell me witch software do you use to design pcb.  thank you very much.

Du musst dir mal wirklich Synnonyme für "one another" raussuchen, das geärt außer Kontrolle

Hey Scott,
in the past you used EAGLE as an EDA-Software. Is this online tool better in some ways or just for free?

Why are 90 degree bends bad????

You couldn't edit out your inhaling directly into the microphone?

@GreatScott!

Vượng Nguyễn The atmega328P can work between 1.8v and 5.5v, from 128khz to 20Mhz. But there is a limit of frequency you can get from a given voltage. If you reach this limit, the Atmega will become unstable and maybe crash. This is like overclocking :-p

So a 16Mhz Atmega328p will have serious difficulties running on 3.3V
Because the voltage isn't high enough. Put 5V and it will works fine.

See the datasheet of the Atmega328P if you want to see the "cuve of stability" (max frequency vs voltage)

You learn through projects or electronics course or electrical engineering it's fun!!

Because the electrons will go in a straight line and fall off the pcb
jk

eagle

Make Your Own PCBs with EAGLE From Schematic Designs to Finished Boards by Simon Monk

The top layer was a copper layer in the end. It is just not that easy to see.

GreatScott! Okay thanks!

Yes

Adam Bryant It has a much smaller component library though, and the cloud bases solution is nice for portability

Also have you had any bad experiences like that?

Maybe I will do a video for that in the future.

Depends on how many you want vs thickness etc, just make sure to use his code

I upload the arduino bootloader through the ICSP pins and then connect the RX and TX pins to program the µC through the Arduino IDE

Lots of formats. Better have a look for yourself.

hes using BV to denote the voltage of the battery, which he plugs into the microcontroller to detect it's charge, and VCC for the voltage after the voltage regulator

easyeda

The online library makes it so easy to find the correct package and footprint. That is why I switched over.

The electrons will fall off

No

But why is the mu letter backwards? 😄

Are you engineer?

Nice video, but could you please cut the breaths the next time out

As much as I really love your videos, I must disagree with your evaluation of this product. There are several problems in designing a pcb accurately. 1st. There's no possible way to place components accurately because the alignment lines on the ruler are centered to the grab hand and NOT the component itself. So, depending on where you grab any component (an LED for example) the placement is going to be off every time. Next. There is a way to set the ruler to inches. However, inches are divided into 1/4", 1/8" or 1/16" segments. Their ruler is divided into 10th's of an inch. (Which is worthless). 
These are just two major problems I thought needed to be mentioned. There are more, but I'll save those for future comments.
Again, I love your videos, but in this case you really missed the mark.

My english is not good enough so I just wanted to ask what is a PCB?

How come 90 bends in traces is frowned on? On a homemade smd or thorough hole would 90 degree bends be frowned apon? I mean is it inviting some thing bad by useing 90 degree bends in either case? Thanks in advance for any responses from anyone.

It is ok to keep breathing while making these videos.

What happened to the BIG PUSH BUTTONS you showed on Facebook a few weeks ago and do you have a link to where you purchased them ? Thanks

Ah Yes, Deutsche Post

There is no plane ground on these boards?

are all the pcbs off of the website $2?

Can you make a working fridge (refrigerator) in an upcoming video? Even at room temperature I have things that just melt all the time and it’s really annoying. I always find that you’re really helpful and informative when making videos and you never miss any details!

Who needs PCB when you got cardboard!!!   House catches fire while soldering

"I swear it's was that crappy fuse from eBay I bought fellow fireman."

Great video man, loved it.

Cries in poor

will jlcpcb do pcb assembly?

I was looking for a basic 'HOW TO...". The first thing you show is "double sided"? Sorry this is not for a novice.

Dear Scott! I sometimes cringe a little when watching your soldering jobs. And it's not because of the camera being in the way. You hardly ever (if at all) use separate flux. 
Here's a cheap way to create your own flux: buy some colophonium resin rocks (kolophonium harz, saubillig, n kilo gibts für teilweise 10€) and dissolve them in isopropanol or ethanol (both 99%). Use a bottle with a brush and fill in your self made flux. It should last you years and years to come.

P.S. Your ground fill and ground connections need some rework.

no offense but what is it with your breathing?

WARNING JLCPCB has a very very bad service, i have order in total 5 project and only recieved 3 of those, the 2 missing NO REFUND ANDNO HELP solving it thay just say just reorder it (with again paying for it)

That looks... complicated.

A. R. Jasso It is not. The Greek always had it like this: μ.

No. I tried that before. It sounds unnatural.

A PCB is a printed circuit board, which is basically a fancier, lighter, and more reliable version of a normal breadboard, or protoboard

Learning Electronics Cheaply : 90 degree bends (and other changes like  a connector in the middle of a wire) can cause reflections. If your running a high frequency signal, some of the signal echos back to mix and add noise and interference to the signal.... Eg: Tv coax cable uses impedance matching connectors to minimize reflections/noise

Also Note : how Antennas work

Coming soon

would love a link or model number to buy the switch

there is no ground plane on 2-layer PCBs

 @techheck3358  I can't remember why I was asking that but I see at 10:03 the ground is the whole board (the solder mask is open)

as long as it's 2 layer and less than 10cm x 10cm, with green solder mask, then yes

They do SMD assembly for a charge.

 @varunsreedharan5347  is it cheap to use their assembly

I do that occasionally

I usually like GreatScott, but this video makes the process looks too easy. Once signals (specially high speed signals) or other specific system requirements get involved, the process becomes so complex that it takes months if not years of experience to get it done right. A senior engineer always said that if a PCB design is simple, then the system its self is simple which is mostly not the case. Never the less, this approach is good for simple designs which is something JLCPCB does well. Good advertisement.

auto router is a shit,

Well certainly not a beginner friendly tutorial, I don’t even know what half of these are

can you squat like slav

yea 2$ and 25$ postage.. no thanks.

second video down and still dont know how to actually make the damn gerber files

Excellent tutorial, thank you.  A couple of points....
1.  does the online tool leave copyright with the designer or hijack it?
2.  Can the designer transfer the design to personal storage?
3. Is the design in a format transferable to another tool?  I did a lot of music composition in Logic on a PC.   Many hours of work.  Then apple bought the package and declared it restricted to their platform.  Very nasty.

i dont want electronics to rust. cover them up with paint or glue. on the cirquite board, so they last foreeeeeeevvvvveeeerrrr. makeing them air tight.

I didn't understand a single word

Kinda sick of having to hear about JLCPCB in every video

Can you please make a video on how to design and manufacture such PCB for Bluetooth module

Because it's summer, you should try to make a DIY Peltier Air Conditioner.

please, mate, remove all your breathes from audio. I can do it for you, if you want. like for video

LSCS is trash mouser has 100x the amount of components

Is this some rich joke I’m too poor to understand?

sorry but the loss of net neutrality has made YouTube to expensive

Please can you make the PCB of basic motherboard please

The 90 degree bends make the electrons have to slow down so they can make the sharp turn so you shouldn't use them

lies and slander!
if you think googling an issue has a 99% chance of success you've never truely dealt with computer stuff

Not enough KNOWLEDGE...

rust is a bacteria that eats metal. and is present in the air. and need moist too be activated. oxidation is a metal that corrode too air exposure. an oxidation happens also sometimes when metal is heated.

 @steelbrotherhoodof2359  rust is not a bacteria

and coroding of metal. is related too acid. like skinn grease, or carbondioxide in relatiin with moist in the air. et cet tera.

I put it on my to do list

Your soldering skills need improvement!.

You ain't a teacher bro....if u are thought thst way ...Will understand?

Your breaths are so loud.

I’ve had it with the accents the people have in these videos 🤮

Irritating dialect

absolute wast of time, auto router doesn't work

Why for me, NOTHING is as easy as it looks in youtube? Is it just me or does EVERYONE have this same problem?

I’ll be honest, I have no clue what you’re talking about most of the time. I’ll revisit this video when I know more about electrical engineering

It’s “how it looks” or “what it looks like.” Never say “how it looks like.”

Please tutorial give Hindi

next time lower the exposer on you camera

This is not a tutorial!

Bro I told my boss I will design wireless stroboscope design in 3 weeks and I know nothing about circuit design, wish me luck

Rounded traces are in fashion now... video literately unwatchable /s

That's the thing, never trust autorouter, in fact, never use it. It seems like a good idea, but if you do the work yourself it's better in the end. It just connects the pads all whilly nilly and you end up redoing it all anyway.  Check EEVBlogs video on that. Human vs autorouter if im not mistaken

All auto-routers suck. You'll end up with noisy and ugly PCB-s. Any EE with a little experience can tell by looking at your auto-routed PCB that you've "cheated". This also hints that whoever designed the board has no clue what they are doing. Creating a good design requires a lot of decisions that require hours of research - an auto-router skips all that and creates just a scrambled mess.

