Dont waste energy kids

I honestly love your diagrams, ur handwriting and diagrams are so neat!

I dont know why i'm here, but i didn't skip every single seconds till the end. This is why YT should exist.
Great work!

Hey Scott, make a long range radio transmitter and receiver, and maybe show us how to calculate its range. That'd be fantastic!

I love seeing those Manhattan circuits! So beautiful!

I wish I knew what you were talking about, but I love watching a knowledgeable person work.

I simply love the way he drew everything so neatly, so pleasing to watch that I could watching it all day! =D

I'm here for the glorious drawing and handwriting!

The 'i'll see you next time' at the end is so calm it relieves all my stress and anxiety

you must open a second channel named electronics porn...

I don't have a card and your channel makes me miss the local radio shack

Great video Scott, may I request a video explaining how to read and apply characteristic curves/graphs and technical table spec sheets of semiconductor devices such as transistors and diodes to constructing circuits? Because I got confused in some parts of the video wherein you made use of those curves and tables but I didn't understand why those values mattered and how to interpret them in the way you did. Also, may I suggest when displaying those curves/graphs to not show them at a dutch angle? It seems a bit difficult to interpret at first viewing. Thank you for all these very technical but non-jargon heavy electronics videos, they're quite insightful. Hope to hear more from you Scott.

is awesome to be working on some audio circuits and receive a notification saying "class D amp" from great scott! made my day

great explanation!  I love the detail of the  circuit layout and values.  Good job.  we need more audio circuitry here on YouTube​.

I am amazed at your organization on your circuit boards. It requires so much precision.

When people listen to music ,I listen to his amp hour interview 

This is the first time I am listening for type D audio amplifier. I appreciate your way of explaining the circuit and components. Please more circuits. Thanks

i love your work and so i translated everything into french in the subtitle

Insanely polished videos .. I can't even imagine how much it must take to get these done .. Thanks !

I must congratulate you. I have an electronics degree, and appreciated the way you explained the theory behind every step you took.

Well, the heat dissipated will keep you nice and warm during the winter?

Not really. If even the energy cannot be elliminated, the heat produced by the transistors are useless and even harmful. And that is why we use heat sinks.

Ahmet Asantas you can't "waste" energy it can only be transferred from one store to another. I listen in science (most of the time)

I'ma use vacuum tube

Don't heat away energy kids 🔥

you mean entropy

Yap yap

Don't use class A amp kids

Ahmet Asantas you can't "waste" energy it can only be transferred from one store to another

 @baylee3754  There's a thing called "entropy"

Ahmet Asantas eh.

I know, I'd love to see him make a draw my life! Just for the diagrams :D

 @froople  Hahahahaha!

Connor Edwards - Music "Draw My Life"
Draws Buck-Boost converter circuit diagram

honestly, whenever he writes ones, they look like lambdas(greek), which makes it especially confusing when he refers to wave functions.

And also..he is left handed

 @fridaylab7265  omg 😲 I watched his videos for 2yrs and I could not figure it out

Trouble is I tend to zone out watching him write neat and forget to listen and learn what he's actually teaching! lol

His neatness is amazing being that he is left handed. Us lefty's  usually have sloppy handwriting

His soldering also 🤩🤩

Just discovered this thread 4 years later from a YouTube email and unexpectedly found 600+ likes, a guy trying to insult me, and another defending me 😂

He's deutsch. Of course his diagrams are neat!

When your comment on someone’s video has more likes than the views on any one of your YouTube videos 🥲

@Mayank Jain R U from india bcoz indian average handwriting is terrible

Ok, that's nice... creepy but friendly. Friendly enough to give a shot, but I'd be watching most of you real close if you said that to me.

There is even simpler circuit in the net, just 2 Ic's, + a pair transistor, no mosfet at all, just search keyword PWM amplifier...

Is it a typical issue for Class D amp that a drum beat can easily distort the smoothness of the vocal?

Mayank Jain Gay!

The reason there is no FM on Shortwave ( Or AM and LW) is because the band width is not there that is required. Broadcast FM takes up nearly 200 Khz of "bandwidth" (Which also accounts for Guard bands, frequency deviation of the transmitter, and the bandwidth of signal). The typical AM band, 550 to 1600 KHz, would allow about 5 stations only for a given area. But it gets more complicated then that..... FM has the "Capture Effect"- The ability for a stronger signal of two (or more) signals to be demodulated and make the weaker signal even more weaker, hence blocking it out. (Which is pretty handy if you live next to a tower with a lot of FM broadcast stations, and only want to pick up one. Also helps with noise.) But with Frequencies down on the AM broadcast band, wavelengths travel extremely long distances, mostly during the day. (But there can be some anomalies during the day) So stations would be mixing and capturing each other, pretty much resulting in 5 stations per perhaps 500 miles. Even stations out side the 500 mile zone could mix, providing conditions of the atmosphere is right. ..........Sorry for the long reply, It's a good thought. I'd love to listen to stations way off in other states crystal clear with no lightning crash or other electrical interference.

yeh, if could u make transmitter and receiver circuit for like something that is rc that'd be fantastic

Guys, guys, guys... I didn't actually expect that to be of such a great interest, so let's clear up what(I think) we want right here:
1) FM/AM broadcasts over short distances.
2) Sending radio signals over very long distances with "Line Of Sight" propagation.
3) Sending radio signals over a decent distances with "Non Line Of Sight" propagation.
4) How we can calculate ranges and bitrates of modules make.
5) How all this stuff works
(Correct me if I got something wrong)
6) How you could interface this module with a microcontroller (e.g. Arduino)
7) How those could be used to program RC models including, for example, cars, drones or sailplanes

That could all be packed up in one ultimate wireless networking guide!

Scott, I know this is a lot to take in and is too much work, but this is gonna be a lifesaver for many people.
I've been into this stuff for some while now, and this is the link that was most useful: http://www.electronicdesign.com/communications/understanding-wireless-range-calculations

I believe you, but that's an application specific need for FM. They may not have a FM broadcast band around in the 100 MHz or so range.There is also room up in the 10 meter end of the SW bands for FM. I am in the process of building one now on 29.640 Mhz. It's not till you get to 11 or 10 meters that FM becomes practical. Then, most long distance propagation come at certain times during a high sun spot cycle.

mohammed mokhtar 
and how to use the transmitted data to control an arduino....cause i bought a 433Mhz rf module and it has lots of interferences and I would love to know how some code can fix that

mohammed mokhtar long range = high power + long antenna
the power is especially important for am...

could u plzs add transmiters and recivers for rc cars and others but plzs tipe it in a bit smarter way cuz u probably understand electronics

Mohammed, I suggest two books: Microwave Engineering by Pozar, and Antenna Theory and Design by Stutzman.

They won't show you how to build the electronics exactly, but they will help you know how to calculate antenna ranges, far field radiation patterns, bit rate, and how "all this stuff works."

To build the electronics there should be tutorials online.

It would be really awesome if it can achieve really high LOS ranges.

Fantasterrific Maybe: that could be used for almost anything

gud idea

Then if we all make one we can yell at each other and laugh crazily like mad scientists >.<

mohammed mokhtar i dont think he will do such a thing. Its illegal to do this kind  of stuff in germany without a proper license

mohammed mokhtar - Because it's only unlicensed if the equipment meets specific parameters which have to be thoroughly tested and approved. You can't make your own transmitters and use them legally. I doubt you'd get caught, though. There's someone near me using an old UHF mobile PMR radio, possibly putting out 25 watts on the PMR446 band. That's 50x the legal power! He also has a roof mounted antenna. The chances of being caught abusing the power and antenna regs on PMR446 are almost nil. Someone would have to put a complaint to the authorities, and even then they have much more serious radio complaints to deal with. I'm not advocating such behaviour.

mohammed mokhtar Part 15 devices. I knew this would get brought up. They are restricted to very low power (.1 watt or less), have permanently mounted, ineffecent antennas. There is many reasons to this, primarily to cause interfereance to other part 15 devices, but also in some cases when the share it with the Amateur Radio bands. Amateurs have a priority on the bands.Part 15 is secondary. They must accept any interference recieved.(Although hams are nore careful not to cause intereference, more comes from part15 users). This only applies to the US under Title 47, the FCC rule book, etc. Other countries have similar things, but its best to check local laws before transmitting.

mohammed mokhtar i want to know how do i match a speaker to an amp? speakers come in various ohms, wattage and sizes. if an amp has 100w 8ohm output then can I choose a 200w 8ohm speaker or I can use 80w 8ohm speaker also? how do I know what size (diameter) of a speaker will work?

There are a lot of factors to consider.  Effective power and gain at the antenna, directional or omnidirectional, terrain, frequency and more.  That is the advanced class.

I don't think he wants to do that since it's illegal here in Germany. But it's very simple and many videos are online for that.

It's illegal

At 11 and 10m you are allowed to transmit in FM and or AM.

maff1917 some bands are unlicensed. This includes the bands used by our wireless routers, walkie talkies, our remote controls and our phones(e.g. 5Ghz, 2.4Ghz and 915Mhz). Only some other bands are licensed, and we all know we could buy a tiny FM transmitter that could be plugged into any car. How is that publicly sold if it is illegal??

DEMONETIZED

but why are you saying that???

He's not the host of the amp hour podcast.

Proto G he has been on AmpHour once

I know, but it's not his podcast.

For sure I feel the same sir. I wrote a essay to compliment him. I appreciate people like you. I enjoy electronics so much its more than a hobby. I consumes me. People ask why I do not buy this stuff and I just cant. Although, I cant because I enjoy making it myself. I will spend 4 hours to make a $5 device. I am glad you complimented this gentleman in this video.

 @retrorocketman6969  No freaking way. You just described me to a T. I take everything apart and salvage hardware, fasteners, heat sinks, transistors etc. I needed a magnetic heated stir plate so I built one. I built the amplifier and sub in my van. I think anybody could buy one. Not too many can make one. I have a 22 year old zero turn mower that runs circles around new ones. I feel good about repurposing junk. It is more than a hobby. Kind of an obsession. I'll fall in my own coffin with a file in one hand and a soldering iron in the other. 😁

must not be a very useful degree if you are watching this 😂

 @nobytes2  I'm sorry your degree compels you put down people to feel funny. Have a wonderful week.

I love the look of your hand drawn schematics.They look very clean.
You should hang all of them in your workshop!

You don't happen to have an old set of cabinet speakers lying around, do you? It's amazing how much an enclosure can increase the sound output of a speaker.

This is the best way to visually describe what's going on during the process. Awesome video. Phenomenal way of teaching.

If someone wants to make one themselves quickly, there is this IC called PAM8304, a 2x3W amplifier, 3W might sound like low power, but when you attach it to bookshelf speakers you will be surprised at how loud it can get!

I have not even started the video, and I already know I'm going to love it, and definitely build it.  This is exciting.  
Sweet.

6:53 Hah! Now I know what tracks you use in your videos!

simply i want to kiss your hands because the neatness of your handwriting and schematics.......

This is the ultimate "what I had lying around" build. Love the parallel capacitors. The end product looks retro i like it!

The Video we all have been waiting for has come now!

I just sat my GCSE systems (electronics) paper and you have had a huge impact on my understanding and revision. Thanks!

I know you look upto Afrotechmods, but your tutorial squashes his one by far🙌😁

Good job Scott !! Im happy to do those circuitswith this level of instruction !! Ty so much !

Great scott your awesome. Liked before watching i just lovee your videos

wow I can't even draw so perfect on my pc, keep up these awsome video's!

Hi Scott, great video. very educational. And I love this done with discrete components. I heard you said the amplifier was far from perfect. I know this is for learning but could you mention the missing things that could be improoved? Looking forward to learn more. Maybe I should get a book on class D amplifiers as I do for class AB.

Music sounds so good through a home made stereo, no matter how bad it sounds in reality

clicked, liked, viewing in progress

Nice video! Very easy explained, and nice hand-drawings, cool!

Hahaha ..... I love your soldering technique!!! Very nicely done to which I will state that you have alot of patients in your soldering method for sure.

On every sunday, I am waiting for your video  at this time, very exited to see the topic of the video , after all , I watch the video and comment like this . like if the same happens with you

@Nash Finnley This is a bot.

Yeah, if the speaker isn't enclosed you lose more than 50% of Volume due to Phase cancellation

I know right he uses the crappiest speaker ever

@Anakin Rudy thanks so much for your reply. I found the site thru google and im waiting for the hacking stuff now.
Seems to take quite some time so I will reply here later with my results.

@Anakin Rudy It did the trick and I now got access to my account again. Im so happy:D
Thank you so much you really help me out :D

@River Immanuel instablaster :)

@River Immanuel no problem :D

i guess Im asking the wrong place but does anybody know of a way to get back into an instagram account?
I somehow lost my password. I would appreciate any tricks you can give me

 @riverimmanuel7955  reset your password

Let's just say I inspired him :-)

+Aatik's lab We need more greats scotts in this world, but don't be just a copy of him, you can create a lot of incredible stuff too :D

Start pronouncing power like powah and you'll be one step closer to being Great Scotty

i know that you inspired him 🤗

2nd^
  The last thing we need is examples of the same stuff done over and over. Music, style... I couldn't care less. The important thing is to keep it interesting by doing something interesting to you and unique.

Yes great scott your right  you inspired me

He's eveng using your music on his videos...

Aatik's lab i want to know how do i match a speaker to an amp? speakers come in various ohms, wattage and sizes. if an amp has 100w 8ohm output then can I choose a 200w 8ohm speaker or I can use 80w 8ohm speaker also? how do I know what size (diameter) of a speaker will work?

you're greatscott copyer😑

same :D

Rohit Datar you beat me at my own game

+W0W You just did!

:v

why do you give likes before viewing ?

WoW

you can always dislike it at the end

123knura i want to know how do i match a speaker to an amp? speakers come in various ohms, wattage and sizes. if an amp has 100w 8ohm output then can I choose a 200w 8ohm speaker or I can use 80w 8ohm speaker also? how do I know what size (diameter) of a speaker will work?

 @debojitacharjee  if it's guitar amps you're talking about (or probably most forms of Amplification), check the impedance and power rating
If the speaker starts to sound like someone crumpling plastic near your ears then lower the volume or get a different speaker with a preferably higher rating

SparkofRedstone yes i agree but one day if he makes a bad video, we need him to know he's doing shit

Excellent video, really clear and well presented. Bravo!

I wish to learn everything you've done in this project From calculation to actual assembly of circuit but I lack in knowledge 😢

The explanation of Class D amplifier is excellent. I have built Class A, B and C amplifier in the past. I own several cheap Class D amplifier today. This video explains clearly of the theory of operations. You have excellent soldering skill as well. Keep up the good work!

last time I was that early there was no amplifier

That opening song is a banger!

Great scott! I have a couple of questions:
1. What if I apply a square or triangle wave to the input of a transformer instead of a sine wave?
2. Will you make a tutorial about electromagnetic levitation? 
3. Where can I buy a transformer like that which u used in the pain test video?

That really helped me understand the class D amp...  nice work thanks

This design could benefit from some overall negative feedback to help with the non-linearity.  An integrator to generator a proper triangular waveform from the 555 would also be an improvement.

"dont forget to like share and sub, stay creative and i will see u next time" love these lines sooooooooooooooo much

Make something abaut tubes ?

first DIY where everything, even with calculations, is explained...usually, they just tell you to connect the components and turn the power on...great job, man!

Dude honestly frap yourself :D.
Just when I was thinking "he should do a Class D amp video" you upload one in the next 2 hours.

instantly subscribed to this quality, great work well done !!

7:20
I would reduce the control voltage of the 555 and re-tune the DC offset

Ive DIYed hundreds of speakers but never an amp.  Definitely on my bucket list. I like how you use hand diagrams. I sense you know what you're talking about; something that can be lacking on youtube from time to time :)

I remember when back in the day I had to draw circuits for college, they always worked as intended but those diagrams looked hideous...but damn are his diagrams pretty or what? just look at them they look printed.

Thank you. Your drawing and talking are great.

three downvotes after 3 minutes....wow

This is my favourite by far. Nice man.

Suggested improvement to reduce distortion: add transistor diode current source instead of the resistance between pin 7 and vcc of the 555 to linearize the triangle wave

Thats what we do in electrical engineering, what he showed here is basically 2nd and 3rd semester stuff

1. Works similar but has a couple of negative side effects. Better ask Google.
2. Sure.
3. Ebay

GreatScott! Thank you for your answers!

Just answering number one:

1)What if I apply a square or triangle wave to the input of a transformer instead of a sine wave?



You can't.

No, wait I'm serious.Let me explain:
In fact, a square wave can be represented as a composition of sinusoidal waves.Which means that you're basically applying a lot of sinewaves that together compose a squarewave.

-----
example:
lets say we have a squarewave of 1000 hz(1 volt amplitude):

by using fourier series we can expand it in to this series:

  square= 0.636*sin(2*pi*1000*t)+0.212*sin(2*pi*1000*3*t)+0.127*sin(2*pi*1000*5*t)+0.091*sin(2*pi*1000*7*t)+....

if you add infinitely many terms you get a square wave(series converges btw).
-----

that decomposition is very useful because capacitors and inductors generally only alter the amplitude and phase of a single sine wave at given frequency(which means they act linear for sinewaves).

now remember your transformer is made of coils(inductors) and resistors.

that means that we are actually applying all those sines to the transformer at the same time.but since they have different frequencies  they'll be atenuated differently for each sine. which  means that the output of the transformer wont be a perfect square wave.

it will be distorted.That's one of the side effects. the ouput of the transformer will attenuate more higher frequencies and less lower frequencies.

Don't get me wrong, it will work, but if  you're just gonna get some deformed square  out of it why not just use a sine that wont weird out of it.

My point is: No matter the wave function you apply, mathematically you'll be just putting a bunch of sines/cosines in your transformer.

Thomas 131377 Okay... now I got the thumb rule that the impedance of the speaker should be within the range of the amp (in ohms) and the wattage should be higher than the amp but how much high? And how do I know which speaker of what size and wattage is going to give best frequency response and performance?

Thomas 131377 i want to know how do i match a speaker to an amp? speakers come in various ohms, wattage and sizes. if an amp has 100w 8ohm output then can I choose a 200w 8ohm speaker or I can use 80w 8ohm speaker also? how do I know what size (diameter) of a speaker will work?

Debojit Acharjee There is no maximum you can use for example a 50 W speaker with a 3 w amp if the impedances match...as I mentioned earlier the amps wattage shouldn't be higher than the speaker's wattage.... That speaker will work with 3 w...and act as a 3w speaker

Thomas 131377 i read it but didn't find any engineering method for selecting speakers but this guide only says how to select a speaker for any amp. In this guide its written that you can use a lower wattage speakers with a higher wattage amp and you can't use a higher wattage speakers with a lower wattage amp because it would damage the speakers but I think it's bad to use a lower wattage speakers with higher wattage amp because the speakers would get excess power from the amp. Fir example if a 12V battery has 1000mah will have a power of 12 watts and cannot do harm to a bulb of ratted higher than 12 watts but if you use less than 12 watts bulb then you will get more light but it would fuse easily!

Thomas 131377 i want to know how do i match a speaker to an amp? speakers come in various ohms, wattage and sizes. if an amp has 100w 8ohm output then can I choose a 200w 8ohm speaker or I can use 80w 8ohm speaker also? how do I know what size (diameter) of a speaker will work?

Debojit Acharjee The amp will output maximum power when the impedance of the load is same as it's output impedance. so the speaker resistance must be same as output resistance of the amplifier. the power and impedance rating will be provided in the datasheet

Mahesh Bhat okay... but how do I choose the wattage of the speaker? if the output impedance of the amp is 4 ohms and the speaker is also 4 ohms then we can say that the impedance is matching but if the wattage of the amp is 100w but the speaker is 200w or less than less than 100w (80w). What will happen in that case if the wattage is mismatched?

Debojit Acharjee The impedance, voltage rating and Wattage are all related. Wattage = ( Voltage rating )²/ impedance. So if the speaker and amp have same voltage rating and impedance they will have the same wattage. As you mentioned, if amp and speaker are rated 4 ohm impedance both and 100W and 200W respectively it implies the Voltage rating of the speaker is more than the amp( sqrt2 times). Still you can use this with the amp without a problem. It will draw a current only to produce 100W. If you use a speaker with lesser Wattage, there is a chance of it getting damaged because the voltage rating will be lesser.

Mahesh Bhat okay thanks... but how do I choose the size of a speaker what difference it will mean to connect a speaker with smaller or bigger size if the impedance is matching? also how do I know the wattage of the speaker if only ohm rating is mentioned on the speaker?

Debojit Acharjee Usually votlage rating of the speaker will be somewhere around 12 to 20V. (not sure) So you can calculate the approximate Wattage.. Bigger the size , larger will be the voltage rating. If you are using this amplifier with around 12 V output, size shouldn't matter

Debojit Acharjee Usually votlage rating of the speaker will be somewhere around 12 to 20V. (not sure) So you can calculate the approximate Wattage.. Bigger the size , larger will be the voltage rating. If you are using this amplifier with around 12 V output, size shouldn't matter

Mahesh Bhat but this is complicated because the output wattage of the amp can be calculated from the supply voltage and the output impedance but how you will know the operating voltage of a speaker because on a speaker it's not mentioned but only the ohm is mentioned. The size of the speaker has something to do with the frequency response I think and I want to know what will be the suitable size of speaker for the amp. You are not correct because I have seen same wattage of speakers of different sizes.

Matheus Rotta Thank you very muck for your answer! Very good explanation!

Debojit Acharjee The wattage of the speaker can be higher then the wattage of the amplifier and it will work just fine(as I know). But if the wattage of the amp is higher than the wattage of the speaker the speaker will get "killed". I'm not a sound engineer or something like that so I don't know much about the diameter and I don't want to tell you something wrong...

Debojit Acharjee I have a 6w speaker with a 3w amplifier (in my portable speaker that I built) and it works very well. I can't tell an exact value because as I said earlier I'm not a sound engineer but I think (so I can't guarantee) that 3-10 watts higher will work just fine. I think the diameter doesn't really matter when speaking of wattage(probably it matters when speaking of resonance frequency or drequency response). The frequency range has to be written somewhere on the speaker or packaging (my speaker is 20-10,000 Hz) I'm sorry but I'm  not sure what did you mean by performance... And I think the wattage doesn't really affect the frequency response.

Thomas 131377 Let's ask Great Scott then... or can anyone answer this? What is the maximum wattage of speaker we can use witg an amp for best performance?

Thomas 131377 but I have noticed that when you use higher wattage speakers the audio volume gets less... so there must be some matching rule!

Debojit Acharjee Just to get this straight. The wattage of a speaker is NOT what you're looking for when matching amps and speakers. 
Take a look at the spec sheet of the speaker and you will find it's sensitivity. THIS is what to look for when matching speakers and amps, because it says how high the SPL is when only using 1 Watt.
Lets say you have two speakers. Speaker 1 is 8 ohms, rated at 35 watts RMS and has sensitivity of 91dB/W/m. Speaker 2 is also 8 ohms, but rated at 100 watts RMS and has a sensitivity of 86dB/W/m. You want to drive the speakers at 106dB SPL.
This would mean (after calculations) that for speaker 1, you would need only 32 watts to get it at 106dB. And for speaker 2 you'd need 128 watts for also 106dB.
You see what I mean? You shouldn't look at rated power or impedance, first look at the sensitivity to match a speaker with an amplifier. Then look at impedance to make sure your amp won't overheat because impedance can't get too low.

Debojit Acharjee Read this and it will probably answer your questions:
http://www.the-home-cinema-guide.com/matching-amps-and-speakers.html

200w x 8ohm = 1600, √1600= 40volt/1speaker , I(amp)=200w / 40volt= 5amp. Two 8ohm speaker/ one channel = 8/8 = 4 ohm, Two 200w speaker/ one channel = 200w + 200w = 400w, amply = 4ohm 400w/one channel = 40volt/ two speaker one channe.

basically, you can use any wattage speaker on any wattage amp output, as long as the speaker impedance is the same or higher (you 'might' be able to get away with lower, if you're only going to run it at much lower output than its capable of),  depends on how many watts you want to get out of the amp, a 5w speaker will be safe on a 100w amp if you're only gonna drive it to 5w or less.....but always 'advisable' to go higher, not lower!

Thomas 131377 It will work, but the voltage at the secondary will not be exactly as same as that on the primary. A square wave is basically sum of infinite number of sine and cosine waves of different amplitudes and frequencies multiple of the fundamental frequency ( According to fourier series). Transformer coil is inductive and the reactance is different for different "harmonics". So the output will be of same frequency as that of the square wave but a little distorted.

Thomas 131377 3) Look for a "variac" or Stelltrafo. But don't forget that these are not galvanically isolated.

Why would class D require any negative feedback? It's literally supposed to be non linear. It's a switch. There isn't anything to feed back

​ @researchandbuild1751 Nothing is perfectly linear, in a Class D the power supply voltage will directly affect the output (unlike class A/B) and dead time control of the upper and lower output transistors causes non-linearity.  Of course there is something to feed back; the output.  Pretty much any high performance class D amp will have negative feedback.

I put it on my to do list

дядя Kakadu and other obsolete tech. You could make a top 10 list or something.

Because it's cool learning how stuff works Shane.

How about a Nixie tube clock? This guy relearned how to make Nixie tubes: http://www.daliborfarny.com/ , his are still quite expensive apparently but maybe he'll get you some cheaply for some publicity?

Nixie tubes aren't really a tube but more like a neon lamp. As an engineer, I just don't find tubes cool(they get quite hot) and not that complicated to understand. Why do you think semiconductors were invented? Because tubes are very inefficient. I used to play around with tubes as kid and yes they glow orange.....ooooooooooooh the glowyness soooooo alluring.

Alex C that's an acceptable answer.

Shane Mitchell well if you would actually be an engineer, you would know, that tubes introduce distortion, which to some people (including me) sounds better. But you have to chose the tube carefully, as some don't introduce the distortion.

I never mentioned anything about distortion. I know full well that all amplifiers introduce some distortion irrespective of the topology. BJT's and MOSFET's can replicate valves and use a shit load less power, also speakers introduce more distortion than most amplifiers and it is always the weakest link. You're obviously not an engineer as you would have picked up on this.

'BJTs and MOSFETs can replicate valves'. I could refer you to thousands of guitar players who would strongly disagree.

Why would you want to see old tube technology? Semiconductors are so much easier to implement and use much less power. The only time a tube would be warranted is in very high power RF applications and even then semi's are quite good at this these days. An audio tube amp may use tubes for linearity but MOSFET's and BJT's are pretty good these days as well. Modern BJT's in class A mode can sound just like tubes in audio applications.

..and maybe use a speaker in a cabinet, or that one sat in a small enclosure

It’s like a hidden rule you either draw well but can’t build shit or too ur schematics look beautiful, but you can’t make it worth a shit. He is an exception

I just gotta say, look how clean your schematics are

Nice video! I had a question about the design though. Since this is a single-supply class D amp, what does the low-side switch do? When the high-side is on, the voltage potential is VCC to ground, but low side just connects the speakers ground to the MOSFET ground instead of to a negative supply. Did I miss something?

Need more video like this. thx

Nice build. ...Killing me by using the 386 on a class D, but I've done the same before. They make convenient buffers.
  If you want a warmer vintage sound (the LM386 is adding it's own tone so you might as well choose a style), check out the site runoffgroove.com (no affiliation). Their open source "Fetzer Valve Deluxe" project goes through how to create a single JFET buffer that sounds really interesting. I have that stage running in front of 2 different guitar amps and I like it. It would be interesting to see how a 'tube amp' simulated circuit sounds with a "Class D" output.

You lost me a little when you started getting deep into the circuit analysis, but i stayed for your satisfying drawings and graphs.

When you are a bit confused so you rewatch 10 Times but still dont really know
You know what i buy a amplifier on ebay bcuz im confused
And make the equalizer circuit myself

your handwriting is gorgeous

Question: Why did you omit the DC blocking capacitor to the output? The coil does not block DC and feeding DC to speakers reduces its performance and durability. You said it wasn't perfect and i get that, but it's just another cap maybe a 1000uF 25V, not much effort since you are not using a negative supply. I might be wrong though, mainly asking just to clarify that :D

Your video is much much better then someone  video said top circuit, free energy .. at least your circuit make sense and working.

how many watts is the speaker

Nice video.  Always something new to learn!

What kind of pen do you use?

¡Naahhh, este Scott es una cornucopia de conocimiento!!
This Scott is a cornucopia of knowledge!!

A. video from great scott! ?? so, I can have a nice day definitely.
good work. thanks for your time and efforts. Love from INDIA.

wow sir,everything is in details ..

can you do a tutorial on how to make a diy microphone circuit

I would really like to see you build a remote controlled car. My kids would be so impressed! Awesome video btw 👍🏻

There is no ground this is single supply and no full bridge amp so how it's low side working

Really Amazing simple Duper Awesome Awesome AWESOME AWESOME!!!

I have followed this video to build a class D amp. There's some thing you should know if you also want to follow this video. 
:thanksdoc:  the 1nf capacitor at 555 timer is used to convert square wave into triangle wave. In my case 1nf is to small to fully convert the square wave, you should hook up a oscilloscope and swap a few different capacitor until you see triangle wave.

:thanksdoc: R3 (2k ohm) is used to control the frequency at which 555 timer oscillate. I'm not using TLC555, instead I use NE555, in which case the frequency is only 2k Hz if I use 2k ohm resistor for R3. To solve this, you simply replace R3 with a 10k potentiometer, and see what resistance is required to get 200k Hz. 


:thanksdoc: I added a 1000uF capacitor in series with the speaker as a coupling capacitor to block the dc at output stage.

Any way, thank you @GreatScott! for making all the awesome videos about electrical stuff. It helped me a lot.:face-red-heart-shape: Keep on

The low side MOSFET discharges the capacitor when the resulting signal is going through a negative slope, particularly when this slope is steep, it's easy to be deceived into thinking current through L only flows in one direction, but that's not the case, as C can be discharged through L and through low side MOSFET to ground, quickly lowering output voltage.

 @diego5733  so would the signal have a DC ofset?

The board looks like its a bridge-tied load - 4 MOSFETs and 2 output inductors, so no DC-blocking needed.

2 other to-220 is regulator for 5 and 12v. There should be 7.5v DC in output (14W for speaker) because output circuit is same as in switching dc regulators (like in motherboards).

4V / 4ohms = 1W

Stabilo Point 88

Sure

Apart from this, no changes were required??

Nice Video.Please upload more often :)

thank you for the channel, I learn too much here.

This guy has an accent; he cannot be trusted

Very crazy! Sensational! Most Class d power amplifier please! thank You my friend! Brazil!!!

Not worth it to make one you can buy amp board fore $1    15*2w sory grama

I Really  love your video making techniques and beautiful ckt diagrams

those amplifiers are cheap so there is no point of making them yourself

Another great video!!! My brain started to bleed about 15 seconds into when you were doing the calculation for the LC filter. I went back over that part about 10 times till I understood it " Yea Right"
Thanks again for all you do.

@GreatScott  @4:44 
3dB point is 50%;  not 30%.

You're left handed! Subbed for the content, but seeing a fellow leftie makes it even better ;)

i'm early, let me tell a joke.







Katy Perry

Thaks 4 make these vdos 4 us.
Very Nice.
See U NEX TIME.

that was a nice sine wave hands-free drawn kkk

dislikes come from audiophiles

Nice!! I will do it in hollydays!

you are best youtuber ever :)

and as always your videos are the best .

Another great Vid.  Keep them coming and thanks!

I love your pen !!

I love anything to do with amplification.... Awesome video and keep up with the good work... I would love to see videos on class A and class A/B amplification.

Not possible

GreatScott! Why

GreatScott! Your upload rate is good and your videos professional. I would not like to see less professional videos.

I don’t trust “Mehdi” telling me who does have an accent and
who doesn’t!

is insulting necessary?

He is German. #MadeinGermany

Important the destination is not. Quest for knowledge! :D

go find a difrent channel we are here to bild and learn for fun not for the final product

MP Dope but what if it is sold out and you have to build it?

Yes, but then you have to wait at least 1 week for it to arrive! What if you need it for this week?

If you apply this logic  to everything in your electronics studies you will not learn anything new.

GreatScott! I couldn't agree more

That´s right.

Low power amps are cheap and it's probably best to buy them, but if you go up in power, things get expensive and it's better to DIY. Also, by doing stuff yourself, you have the power of choosing the quality of the components and manufacturing.

maybe you can buy something similar 'ready made', but this way, as said, you learn how it works and maybe alter it to suit your exact requirements instead of buying something only 'near' to what you want...

Cheap my ass. 50$ is cheap for you?

i personally would try to get rid of that possibly 'uncommon'? mosfet driver chip and use something more 'standard, maybe a 'discrete' driver circuit?', maybe even not using mosfets for the output stage.or different ones...

Makaronimees Makaronist yeah

GreatScott! that's true

Justin Davidow, i hoped that im not the only one who noticed that

-3dB is 50% of power. -6dB is 50% of amplitude.

Love your video

very nice knowledge bank you have created here...thanks.

Good channel my favourite channel

the mind reader greatscott

I was just looking around for a well-explained D-Class amp, and thought I'd never find one. Then I get a notification and GS has come to save the day again. Well done :D

luv u great scott support from india :) keep it up mate

Thanks a lot for this video my left handed fellow :-D

Thank you nice video and very informative. You have given us the basic block diagram and principal of class D amplification. I always did wonder how they derived that high-frequency PWM signal. Seems so simple now I see it here! :)

Very cool! Thanks.

Now i feels like i am living under a rock

commercial wise worthless
education wise priceless
the best investment is on ownself!

great (scott) video

Wow Man!! You are Really GreatScott. This Vid I love it. Great Content and Training for me. I wanna make one . Thanks For Share Your Channel.

That why you are Great Scott😊

thanks great Scott

Awesome.  I'm going to have to try this... :)

awesome vedio.. keep up the good work

Great video.

Gonna order parts and make me one. Thanks Mr. Great... Or is it Mr. Scott. Dunno, but thanks a ton.

thanks Scott

check out Afrotechmods D class amp tutorial

Thanks , great Video !

You are truly genious....i agree

nice drawings!

Thank you sir.

Nice Video, thank you for sharing شكرا جزيلا

I liked video ...but I will watch later

another great video. You rock.

Gread Job 🙂
Thank you

so many Knowledge!

I am in love!! 😍

nice formulas sir

nice. i'm making one

I love how you speak.

This rocks! I subbed.

6:40 When you played North & South on NES and used the artillery.

Nice project
Pls make amplifier with diy dsp

thx you soo much!!

You should show us how to make high and low pass filters to  make both active and passive crossover networks and essentially our own sound system.  Between the amplifiers, the sound system, and videos of making LED's flash to the bass, I feel like a really cool project could be created.

Hii you are doing very well

Very good Video. 
Best Chanel.

Thanks mate

Also Great Scott it would be great if you shift to RF devices like RF power amplifiers and Oscillators modulators etc you get the picture. There are many such videos like that in you tube but no one makes it like you.

I made my own filterless class D amplifier just with Arduino. No filter, just plug in the speaker directly to the I/O pin then it works. It still requires biasing circuit and preamp. The key is the direct modification of PWM registry and some brute computation.

LOL, 555 from Portugal!!!

Excellent engineering and testing.  I need a two channel or stereo version for a tv headphone signal driving a pair of amplified pc speakers.  
Thank you for your encouraging videos.

Dang, you're smart!

Make more interesting videos about basic electronic we are waiting for your videos  .....😍

Be cool to make a little subwoofer box for a small speaker with your 3d printer and using one of your diy amps

good stuff

HE Y SCOTT,THANKS FOR YOUR TIME AND SHEARING SUCH GREAT KNOWLEDGE 
CAN PLEAS MAKE  A VIDEO HOW TO MAKE RC PLANE USING FOAM BOARD .

This reminds me when I was on the 8th grade or something and I used an amplifier board from some old computer speakers and converted it for powering my headphones. That being said, I had the loudest headphones of the entire school 😆😆

Video idea: Demonstration of controllers like PID, and their applications like a Levitation of a magnet using electromagnets by repulsion.

nice video

Great video as always Scott!.  Can you also make a video of audio buffer circuits and upload more videos about audio amplifiers!

Hey Scott, for a future video idea, I think I'd be cool for you to build a super capacitor power bank to charge a 5v USB device.

very nice .....

I love ur videos senpai :3 !!!

Thanks!!!  JS

I just received this exact kit!  Came with all the components, the LCD, test probe and even a clear acrylic case and screws... the PCB is even the same!  I'm looking forward to building it and hope I can get some good results.  BTW the specs state it is only good up to 200kHz, which is fine for what I need.

Commented Before watching the video bcz all your videos are great! This is the 2nd Comment!😊

Big Fan!!!

Супер,  как всегда

ur best

Kompletny przerost formy nad trescia. Lipa

You are a genius Pal, the way you've designed the circuit and the way you've explained the circuit and it's working, moreover the circuit you've drawn are simply awesome and easily understandable. Your handwriting was the best I've ever seen and your presentation was so good that it made us to concentrate on what we have to. Thumsup for you✌❤❤

That's exactly what i needed, now by modifying the schematics i can make my own 600W sub-woofer amp.
And maybe for the next project you can build super simple AM transmitter using TXCO for example...
Or DIY UPS unit... Thanks a lot Scott! i'm waiting for next project :}

I really like your videos. But the thing is, ok now i have the necessary information to potentially make this myself but i feel like i could never come up with the circuit myself. A video where you explain your way of going at it from scratch  would be amazing. I feel like thats the best way to learn something.

cool devices :)

Nice

Thankyou

It would be really awesome if you could ever make a similar video of class AB amplifier.

Thank's

dude, Scott your at 570k, when did that happen, well anyway love your videos, keep it up bud.

I don't understand a bit but it's cool!!!

Cool

to the point

u draw well 😁

Publish a magazine with your designs, where you go more in-depth with the electronics behind :)

Keher dha dia bhai

thanks

You should make more 3D printing videos!

Not bad for a southpaw. His artwork is so good too.

id give you anything *wink wink, tug tug" to have you literally perfect hand writing......

Awesome video! 
The schematic was simple and easy to follow yet functional!
Quick question, how come you like to solder your components, rather than test simply on a breadboard? 
Do you just like to have the circuit for later? 

Neatest left hander ever

ssssstay creative 😂😂

Muito Show,,,

Please explain more about the different Audio Amplifiers

Do more amplifier videos!

Mate, I studied micro electronics  way back in the 80s, JK Flip flops, MUX and DEMUX, even how to program in 4 and 8 bit. You lost me in the first minute, I’m feeling old!! All that said, I can follow what you are saying, thank you so much for the fort.

Older but good video.  Problem is you don't have a feedback loop to deal with all the impedance variations over frequency.  But I'm very sure you know this.

beast

Really high power switchmode power supply with variable voltage, 1000W+

satisfaction

Great Video! I even learned a bit more :)
I once tried to build a D-Class-Amplifier on my own, but with symmetrical voltages, e.g. -12V and +12V. The reason was to enable use of regular audio line signals from a mixer or other mains powered devices. Because a smartphone has no reference to ground and is basically floating, the Amp in this video has no Problem with it. But I didn't want to work with offset voltages, and stick to symmetric audio signals as I always do in audio engineering. 
Maybe this modification with symmetric voltage and audio levels could be implemented in a future version?

Greetings from North Rhine-Westphalia :)

Would have been nice to see both the input and output sine waves side by side!

Practical class d amps do not use open loop pwm. They use self oscillating closed loop modulation that create a variable frequency pwm. Latest gen class d operate at around 750kHz av frequency.

Please make a video on AM and FM modulation circuits

Great video, but while testing amp use speaker mounted into it casing. With this bare speaker you're creating acoustic shortcut that dramatically decrease the volume and quality of acoustic valves formed by speaker membrane.

You could just use an n ch mos and a 220ohm resistor to invert the pwm i did that and works

If you were to make a headphone amplifier it could bring a lot of interest upon your channel, since in the last couple of years a lot of people on the internet seem to be interested in such devices.

I'd like to see someone make an open-air laser digital audio transport.

Hello GreatS, if u apply those freaking awesome knowledge on Audio Amp Chip like TDA2050 or others, im pretty sure u could build a powerfull Audio player/Home theater system..

I've got a video suggestion for you; make an active noise cancelling circuit that you can plug your sound source and headphones to and get a silent noise free listening experience!

NIce video, I always loved making audio amps, even the simplest headphone amps...there is just something fun in amps :-D
Can you make something about simple noise canceling by inverted audio signal?

Great :p

In our college they never told me about this.

hey sir... make a very cool project with very low  price..

Hello Scott,
I really like your videos and those are very awesome. What about making a really cool Hands Free Bluetooth audio player with touch screen. I know there are many out there But I know yours one will be awesome.

sir can make  more video  on class D audio amplifier to deliver an output up to 130w..... and a big thanks ..... for all your lesson.....

hi scott, thank you for all the videos you work on! i learned many things and applied them. could you please make a video about making your own DIY Voltage controlled Lowpass and Highpass filters (VCF) and also is it possible to make the filters without using any IC’s help!

I need you to make a class d amplifier circuit another.

หวงจัง

Wait i thought is a Class D from SCP

This is a really interesting design since it eliminates the need for dual rail supply. Most of the designs I've seen need a separate converter (or supply) for dual rail voltages.

I love class D amps, I have a 300W PA from Yamaha based on a class D, it is wonderful. For those in the comments saying "no point you can buy it for cheap blah blah" the point is you learn something! you can then design and build your own amps to your own specifications, repair malfunctioning ones and get a better overall knowledge of electronics. Just buying it teaches you nothing.

engineer cool.  like)

audiophile people will disagree with pretty much every measurement you made here because their ears are better :D

Try with cabinet speaker for high volume.

never been so early ! noti squad

Where do you get the silver copper wire? Also, what soldering tin do you use? I am having trouble finding one with a decent flux core. Something like Multicore is a little too pricey for me, but it's the only thing I've really like so far.

That is a Logitech driver 😎

There are many designs out there that work off a single supply...

I'd like to see someone make an open-air laser digital audio transport.

you can get much better sound quality using a delta-sigma modulator instead of a comparator; all you need is a schmitt trigger, capacitors, and resistors, and the resulting circuit is actually simpler

would you consider making a video about how to make an active sutainer for guitar ... its good to keep a string ringing ...

You used your diy JBC soldering station.

At 2:46 into this video you mention the MOSFETs were switched ON and OFF in the ohmic region. YES! Eureka. Thank you.

A class D amp is analogous to a SMPS vs a conventional supply being much more efficient.  Class A are around only 20-50%, B's 75%.  D seems perfect for audio applications, good video.

Before an audio signal is amplified it gets DC biased to half the supply voltage (a.k.a virtual ground) to amplify the negative half wave of the audio output without clipping, so the output is nonetheless a DC biased audio output. You need a 1000uF decoupling capacitor to remove all that bias before interfacing the speaker..well unless you're amplifying with a negative supply rail, at least.

It`s a good work! But i had a problem with my homemde class D amplifier - it was a very big EMR in a FM radio band. A FM reciever didn`t work near the amplifier.

Nice video carry on.
What about Equalizer circuit?

i will do this without the 555ic, Lm393 and 74hc04, but i have an ic that have all of this: TL494/Ka7500B (of course i have a ka7500b ic :D) very interesting project indeed

I would still go with a class AB at the end of any day. Why? Because it sound better!

Who liked, subscribed but did not share?

Please make video about "how to make altoids amplifier for phone" thanks

I've binge watched all your video, even though I still have very little understanding of electrical engineering, most of the stuff you talk about goes way over my head and I don't have a clue how any of it works I still want to become an electrical engineer but I have the massive hurdle to get over and that is the fact that I am morbidly dyslexic. Do you know anyone who was in your class that was like me and if so what extra steeps did they have to take to pass?

hey greatscott i want to learn every thing like you , but i don't understand english lot because i am morrocan and people say i steal child to do anything

you forgot to put a capacitor in series with the speaker to remove the output dc offset

This video is just what I needed.I just have a question-how do yoy calculate the output power af such amp?

200w aiwa exos 9 bluetooth speaker is being driven by two D class tpa3118 which provides 2 x 60w for 8 ohms does not require heatsink and is a size of smartphone chip

Can you make video of AGC (automatic gain control) circuit for an amplifier. I have learnt many things from you. I hope your next video of AGC will be helpful for me and everyone who watches.

1 minute of silence to those who thought this was a solar charge controller on facebook :-V

I wish this wasn't confusing to me! I want to build my own Studio quality nearfield monitors!

coolio

0,8 Om sound port for computer next )

@Greatscott. instead of using lm386 to amplify the input signal you could have just stepped down the triangle wave amplitude using a voltage divider right? would it work?

Hey bro did you make any electronic series I mean about the circuitry and detailed study of any electronic component.i want to learn electronics if you have made such a series do let me know your explanation are very good and also the circuitry.

if only theres a Electrical Shops nearby that sells piece by piece of any components, that would be awesome😔 because buying 12v car amplifiers is cheaper than buying every pieces of components in an online shop

im from your amp portugual

Duno why yt sugested me this video now. Well it's interesting as usual but I have a question about coils you used. 33uh is not a big coil and do you see advantage of using air core ones over ferritic? Probably you would have to wind them yourself and they would be considerably larger. I'm asking because back in the day everytime I had to use some inductors, metal core ones were givind me headaches. I don't mind using ferritic ones to cut freq In some normal signals but I dont consider audio signal as one of them :-)

What was the supply voltage given to the entire circuit??

What is your name

It's nice to see you use the JBC soldering iron! Are you happy with it? I'm considering doing a similar station

nice zoom H1

The math that you used to create your output filter was very informative. However, if you try turning the music down, you will hear zero crossing distortion. This is because it is necessary to create a dead time to allow one transistor to turn off before allowing the other to switch on. The higher the clock speed, the more apparent the zero crossing becomes. When playing loud, it's more than 20 db below the peak, so it is drowned out, and sounds pretty good. You can't beat the efficiency though. This topology maintains good efficiency at any load, any amplitude. The same cannot be said for a linear output stage. If you do a hysteresis feed back topology, and do away with the triangle wave generator, you will have pulse by pulse feedback, eliminating any trace of zero crossing distortion. You will greatly improve signal to noise ratio, and greatly simplify the circuit. I wish I had a way to show you a basic schematic to try.

how make a disital  tharmomiter

great Scott! could you tell us the efficiency of the class d amp that you made? I was really hoping to see that!

I need something that can power two subwoofers two tweeters and two midrange speakers for me next project so could to make a class T audio amp

Scott please a FM Transmiter from a source of audio

I just realised he is left handed

Hi,im from indonesia...

so basically i can't do it LOL. 


nice vid though thanks

Well class D amplifiers are far from studio quality.  Look to class A or AB for that.

 @justinquinn7995  this made me laugh but its quite true when i think about it

I think you could have simplified the circuit further by eliminating the HC04 and using the second comparator in the LM393 package as an inverter.

input connector is turned over in circuit diagram

Nice, but is there one for MTF?

Your instructable of this project is wrong, pin 2 and 13 is missing ground. I think I broke my driver for this reason.  I am doing a version based on the TL494

please make a hight power or high watt up to 350w sine wave or a square wave dc to ac 12v to 230v inverter

hey greatscott can you make a video about power amplifier vertical output transistor

Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great

Just buy TDA7375A audio chip and you have 2x43w output

can someone pls share me the link of class AB amplifier video

Hey Scott, can you please make a video about class C amplifier?

😂🤣 that was clipping like crazy but whatever works 😂🤣

teach me how to write like that!!!   I'm really enjoying all your content!  Please keep it up.  Do you use Paypal?  I WON'T use Patreon.

make one with a micro controller!

excelente  amigo pero  no funcionaria mejor en full bridge

Haven't seen an Class D amplifier done discrete till now. You did an great build.
If im not mistaken, feedback can be used for the Class D amplifier to linearize the output more.

😯

this... this gives me too many ideas with car subwoofers and in house uses.

The better way is to build a 6L6 tube amp with some used components.

led 3D cube

class a/b is the way to go though better for sound quality

Yes, feedback would have been the next step. But this was enough for one video.

Can you make a speaker circuit with a TDA2030A? Thanks 😍

CO0O0ool

thanks great scott for filming this video.I am also making a class AB audio amplifier using tda 2030A ic but i dont know why the sound is not clear however somehow if i cleared the voice then the amplification is so high that the neighbours shouts to slow down the volume but i cant lower the volume i plays the music from my smartphone at one unit and even my dolby atmos is turned off..... 
please if you find a way or a link or something like that please help me to solve my problem..... 
thanks great scott once again

can we run it using 12 volt

Love your videos. Question. Can the VCC be equal to the gate driver voltage? I'm trying to use one voltage source all running off 12V 
Thank you in advance

Are there class D amplifier IC's available???
is 4440 ic a class D amplifier chip??

Hey Scott!! I'm your big fan and a hobbyist! So recently I was designing my own amplifier (class ab) and was wondering how to select a suitable speaker for my amplifier! Please help me out!

What is the music you use for testing?

Nice.  Would attenuating the triangle wave have the same effect as amplifying the input for small signals?

Make a video about the HDLx-2416 component. It's an IC with 4 5*7 displays. It'd be awesome with Arduino

How does the 555 timer create a triangle wave frequency of 200khz? I've loaded it into a circuit simulator but it only produces a voltage of 5v on the output (i don't have an oscilloscope). Ive been looking online for a way to create a triangle wave with a 555 timer, and only come across ways to do it by op amps or comparators. The only circuits I've found close to doing it on a 555 timer was by making a square wave with a frequency of 200khz, but then using a an RC filter to make a triangle wave, which would just change the frequency and the amplitude. I'm not really sure how to go from here. Could someone point me in the right direction?

Your content is great but I would say your drawings/illustrations really add to it tremendously! What pens/paper do you use for these - they come out so clean...

Do you have any plans involving solar? Maybe you could go through different sizes of PV panel, control circuits and then one of those big 120W panels. Would be cool to see as I'd like to build some solar power this summer :)

Can you explain or show the diagram of how you  do the offset.

nice video. may I ask when are you building a amplifier of 500 watt to drive a subwoofer? would like to see you build one.

Great Scott how do you pick out components for your projects, do you have some favourite components.

Or you make less feedback or you make peak to peak of triangle smaller.

This reminds me of a buck converter where you have a square wave with changing duty sent to a FET then through a low pass filter. What I wonder is why the extra fet is needed here? I presume to pull low instead of float but I'm not sure.

wo hast du den lautsprecher gekauft? where did you buy the speaker?

plz make that video

Stabilo Point 88

Nice. But can you make it stereo?

could yu make one for a car audio system

Could you please design MPPT Solar tracker and charge controller with arduino .

Could you make a DIY or Buy video for this???

thank so much GreatScott you are amazing you are the best                                                                                                                                                                            plz can you do a project about solar mppt charge controller and thanks

can you build a 3,7v batery carcer there carche with a solar module

can you tell me a bit more about the LM386 connections?

Super Channel eine Anmerkung: „The“ spricht man nur dann „die“ aus, wenn darauf ein Vokal folgt. Du machst das eher nach dem Zufallsprinzip. Die Schematic, Die Sine Wave. Nix für Ungut.

Hi Scott...! please teach us how to make a Bluetooth audio transmitter un order to use our Bluetooth headphones with a normal 3.5 mm Jacks in any devices like a tv's... Greetings...!

Hi kannst du mal eine CNC Laser fraäse bauen

@GreatScott! I want to buy some "silver copper wire" for perfboard soldering, what do you use?

Could you make a class AB amp like the previous one, but use FETs instead of BJTs?

Hi. Can you please do a video about transistor as amplifier? I tried to read it by myself but it seems like I need a professional explaination. Thank you.

Syed Zaheeruddin

The lm386 is a Class-AB amp though

Make it better by adding a mini sub woofer, tweeter, and a mid-range speaker, and then make their own connections

Simply jealous of u !

Se puede modificar a 8ohms 40wtts?

Could you explain how class D amp circuit works?

instead of comparator can we use op amp and why u used ic to drive mosfet it can be directly drive by inverter and comparator.

It is on my to do list

thank you so much

But it sucks up power like a Edison bulb

GreatScott!  Kannst Du Mal Einen ( Klasse A Verstärker ) Bauen?

Hey there GreatScott! . Can you please add a simplified schematic and thanks in advance. Please give some advice. :)

Hey! This schematic looks pretty damn good! .. What power can It output ?

How can it be efficient? the low pass filter, filters out the principle frequency component and most of its harmonics
??

can u upload a video on making a TDA2030A based 2.1 subwoofer out amplifier circuit?by using a NE5532 opamp ic?

how can i increase its power? increase the voltage of the powersupply or increase the peak-to-peak voltage of the input signal?

Hi. Would you consider making a DAB+ to Bluetooth device that would allow a car to connect via Bluetooth and use the previous and next track controls to change stations. See you next time!!

Can you make simple guitar Amplifier.?

could you made us a water cooling home made i know it is a hard project

Hey sir, can i replace the mosfet driver with other type ?

Hi
I have a question.  how much voltage you power the circuit in the part of MOSFETS? please I´m student mexican.

can't we use the op-amp with an inverting amplifier configuration to amplify and also get rid of the not gate chip? 🤔

pls someone ask me, there is any way to fix de offset without an oscilloscope?

40KHz does your ears hear up to that level 😮

Cool... I have a AC 12 v 1.5 amp adapter and I have a 12 Dc Power needed amplifier board. How to convert that 12 ac to pure 12 Dc? Ac12v make too noisy with amplifier

Is there any demerits with class d amplifire

Fantastic, man! One question: how many watts would be the amplifier?

What happens as you lower the amplitude of the Triangle Wave?

That non linear transfer characteristic is making me nervous.

All very cute but you dont say how much power the amplifier has

3:09 A fa-fa-five timer

Hey, i would like to add criticism, just for learning purposes... the comparator has a triangular wave input right? This is because comparing to a linear signal will give you a linear comparison signal, preserving the linearity of the different sinusoidal signal levels, so to speak. The triangular signal on the experiment was relatively distorted non linear, this would result in distortion of input signal harmonics!! In other words, it will shift the frequencies of the music! Just to point it out, very neat project!

next time u should use SG3525

were can i gue those formulas explained?

Thanks for the explanation.  Can you use an IRF9540 (P-channel) instead of an IRZ44?

make radio transmitter please sir

I don't now were the cap (that is 47u) at  vcc  goes to

What kind of transistors should I use to make a audio poweramp to go with my lm386 preamplifier??

Is it possible to use a positive and negative power supply for the output stage in this project? For example +15 and - 15V?

Where did you study?  Did you used books??  Please learnings are valuable

Is it possible to use 4 MOSFET's in H bridge configuration ? That could double the output voltage, peak output voltage could be full supply voltage instead of of only half

Yow Scott y don't you add that to a pcb there? :)

I know you might not play guitar, but have you ever thought about building and Arduino guitar FX pedal?

Good video. What is the max output power? Or it depends on the power supply?

how would one convert this system from 15V to 12V logic?

alguien me dice cuál es la potencia de salida de este amplificador

please build vlf metal detector

how can you control the volume of the amp (gain) n the fly?

Can you make a studio monitor

yolo

clicked so fast

why don't we need a full bridge or bipolar supply voltage? Because it the lower MOSFET is on we pull ground to ... ground?

Is a tube amplifier in the to-do list?

Hi Great Scott, you have not posted the class AB amplifier video. Please show it

Hi is it possible to make an powerful amplifier using an 4440 ic

Can you put a link on where to buy the perf board that you use.

indeed, very nice diagrams and way to draw them. one (silly?) question though: how are the 2 MOS transistors driven in the schematic you show? I mean, the low side one ok, i understand. but for the high side? you need a vgs voltage. what is the reference for the source in high side? thank you. 
later edit : i get it :-) the detailed schematic explained :-)  i only looked at the block diagram. sorry :-)

Salt amp bae, adding salt to music.

If this was an TDA7492 board, I have the same :D

sorry i asked,... i was wondering, with that skill in electronic and crafting as a hobby (i think) , what do you do for a living? sorry for this personal question

A question about this amp in specific: wouldn't it require also a high pass filter? From what I understood, it swings the voltage between VCC and GND, so an audio signal would only go positive, no issue on that until we count that the speaker is referenced to ground as well, but a middle voltage (which should happen at zero input signal) would be half VCC, so it would be conducting that DC offset.

What speaker was he using to demonstrate the amp working?

What about the constant DC-current that's flowing over the speaker? In idle, the pwm signal is about 50%, which means that there will be a DC voltage across the speaker with this configuration.

Can we do this project without the driver ic..

Which power amplifier is used for amplifying the sensor output followed by PID controller?

Does connecting smartphone to amplifier damage the smartphone itself ?

Can you add a link to the perfboard that you use in your videos?

I want to build a class d 50watts amp,can u provide some schematic for the project?

Would it be possible to replace the 74hc04 with some mosfets?

can I get a link for PCB board u used in the video

It´s not bad at all.
You´ll get ~36W each channel at 27V still with good sound.
I´m using it for my portable boombox at 12v (maybe 10-15W each channel) which is still loud enough.

Can I use amplifier with 3w power output for a 5w rated speaker driver? pls reply.

Hello,
could you please tell me which kind of wire you use to create your straight soldered connections on the prototype board?
Thanks

Cool! But how does it sound for slower switching frequencies? Anything worth making a guitar effect of?

I've bought a tpa3116 class d 2.1 amplifier but when powered by my 6s 5p battery pack (25.20 v 10 amp Approx ) and after an hour of playback if I bring my palm near the inductors it's like I'm frying my hands myself !! Can you please give me a solution to fix this problem ?? As per reviews I've seen I've heard this ic don't get heated up and actually with proper circuit it doesn't need a heatsink but anyways the heatsink don't bother me but the inductors do !! Please help me Scott your tutorials were really great to me !!

I may be stupid but what scope are you using its amazing how fast it updates

Hello! How would you recommend having two arduinos communicate wirelessly across a short distance? Thanks!

I like electronics, built my Bluetooth speaker,  dislike math after I took trigonometry.

why you dont use a TEA2025  ( STEREO AUDIO AMPLIFIER )

give me the etching pcb solution print, XD

That ic it's from my mother land PORTUGAL

Can you output your music from microcontroller as a PWM signal, and input it directly to the MOSFET driver directly?
Because many microchips have higher PWM resolution than DAC resolution.

Make a video on LM1876 Audio Amplifier. It requires dual rail power supply and it can provide 60 Watts of power. I've been thinking of making one but am not able to find time.

how can I make 100w + amplifier which sound nice but have minimal component ?  am completely noob at audio stuff.

Why didn't you use a GIC to implement the inductors? Just curious.

Can I use 220uh coil and 100nf capasitor in this LC filter?

i want to be like you , i am noobie in electronics.
can anyone recommend me some books or links from where i can start, thanks in advance. 👍

So, IF you ended up adding in the simple LM386 amplifying circuit from the data sheet, how does it compare, this circuit with the MosFETs AND the LM386 circuit, to just the LM386 circuit??  I’ll build one to find out, as I have about five or so of those LM396 amps already soldered on pcb laying around my gear.  I’ll need to look out for the specific op amp that you’ve used.  Also, how come only a single, positive DC power supply?  Is it because of the way you’ve wired the FETs, or perhaps incorporated some output from the amp to create a feedback loop to the opamp’s inverting stage?  I’ll check out your circuit, and Thank You for sharing this.  I’m fond of your videos, and also your penmanship!!

Oh yeah, and where do you live, where you’d write the numeral ‘1’ to look a little more like an upside down ‘v’, and yet you write from left to right!!??  I know of no such place on this planet where this is the custom.

how can I make a class D Amp with feedback, my problem is that i can't find enough about its stability on the Internet ... also if you're using a single 15v supply how come there is no DC blocking capacitor at the output ??

How much power this amp can provide. ??!

How to make that inductance meter you used ?

i want to know how do i match a speaker to an amp? speakers come in various ohms, wattage and sizes. if an amp has 100w 8ohm output then can I choose a 200w 8ohm speaker or I can use 80w 8ohm speaker also? how do I know what size (diameter) of a speaker will work?

how to test ir2101...can you try test and how is work

Bro I have 2 1.5 inch speakers  that each has 4oum 2wats and I have a 3.5volt smartphone battery but I don't have any voltage booster
So can you please help me by giving me some idea about what kind of amplifier will I use to power the speakers?

I tried one of those 2x3watt class d amps from ebay (5vdc) but im getting 0.5v dc across the speaker terminals, scratching my head here, the board has a 680uF capacitor

I have a Veroboard stock that STINKS of burnt circuit board for some reason. The board itself is fine, it's just the smell that bothers anyone working with it.
Should I throw them out? It makes my head hurt when I solder on it.

سلام خسته نباشید

Can a class D amp be used as a driver for a sine wave inverter?

Hello. Don't  know if you can help, I salvaged 3 Bose speakers, I Do not know there watts.  could I make or buy a little amp?

so what about stereo, will I need two of these circuits side by side one for each l and r channel or can you modify this one by adding a few more components to make it handle two channels simultaneously?

Hi,       how much power can we get on output side in RMS? Thanks in advance .

Hey Scott! I want to use this for two 150w Coaxial woofers. Could I drive them both with this amp and would you recommend even using this amp for my application?

What gauge is the bare copper wire you use to hookup on proto boards?

Why are there two capacitors at the op-amp output?

hack a car tape radio with an aux input or even a bluetooth connection!!

so i see that the audio jack has two signals going into resistors which then get put back into comparator, does this mean you are essentially using the aux port as a mono output instead of stereo?

I have now rebuild this amp. But i have still one Problem that when I connect my phone to the amp, and when i playing no music. Then same noise came out of the speaker. Im using also an 4 ohm speaker. But when I check the output of the amp with my scope. Then i can see an very bad sine wave with ~20 MHz. But why? Also my cirucit requestes around 70 mA when no music and speaker is attached. When I look with my scope to the 555 timer then i have an frequency of 250 KHz and an triangle wave(IR2113 Driver is not inserted), but if I insert the IR2113 i have an double triangle wave and a frequency of 400 KHz? The wave is also normal when I cut the connecten between HO und LO(ir2113) and the gate resitor and diode. Playing Music work just fine. But i have only the annoying noises.
Can samebody tell me why that so is? And what I can do to fix that?(Sry, for my bad english im caming from germany)

Hi, could you please send me the schematic with the pre-amplifier in please. thank you

Yes you could do all that Indeed.... OR you could get an IC that does all of that for you

Not sure if you can help me here but I have the Kanto yu6 which has one powdered speaker and both speakers stopped working.  What might be the cause of that?

Hi Scott, how do you manage the dead time to avoid short circuit in the MOSFETs?

me neither

Hey  Scott, can you tell me why you don't use the ca coupling after generating a triangular wave. when I am generating I am getting a dc offset voltage .can you tell me the reason behind this.

do you have any solution for me please answer soon

Great Scott, there's an error in your project - you've flipped the symbol for J1 audio jack and the connections are misplaced. To fix this, you're going to have to delete all 3 connections to J1, then flip it vertically and finally rewire the 2 input resistors and GND to the appropriate terminals (L, R and S, respectively). I've forked your project and done this fix myself (as user Renrew Eck).

i have a question what is different of class D and class A etc amplifier?

thats nice! how was the efficiency of your circuit?

hi, can i use any 555 timer or must it be a tlc 555 cause i can only get a lm555cn

For me to make a class D amplifier that has 12 Mhz on the 2 digital pins (which is the frequency of USB 2.0 type C) to play MP3 songs I need how many mH in the inductor and how many uF in the capacitor?

Will it work with guitar? ( i know,  time)

Sir i have 41v power supply and 7388 ic it's maximum voltage is 12to15v how to fix this problem

what power we can expect from it?

At 3:47, why do you have a 10 ohm resistor in parallel with a diode ? Why 10 ohms ? Thank you in advance.

how about an arduino 'test boy'?

What about a class AB amplifier.  I build a tiny amp just using the LM386 but KA386 variant for audio.  I want to add a higher power stage after it while keeping it class AB.  What do you think?

Could this be used with headphones to indicate a refrigerant leak?

how much power can we get on output side in RMS?
Can I get 250 Watts RMS power from this circuit by replacing mosfets as I'm interested in designing 250Watts high power amplifier?
waiting for kind reply. Thanks

Is it ok to say, that the LM386 is directly driving the speaker ? Lm386 has 1w capability.
And the comparator inputs are limited to a few nanoamps.
So even with a higher voltage or amperage, it will still send approximately the same RMS signal.
Is the speaker running on LM386 feedback ? (and its a class ab amp, not a discrete op-amp)

I've been looking to make a class D amp but don't know where to start. I need 300w at 2 ohms for two channels for mids/bass, and I need a separate one for 50w at 4 ohms for two channels for my tweeters. I've tried finding schematics, but the ones I've found are messy and confusing to follow. Any suggestions?

how do you cut the board?

I don't quite get why you built in the electronic low-pass. Shouldn't the speaker act as a mechanical low-pass itself?

Hello Guys, I was also building a class d amplifier as taking reference of great Scott schematic, in my circuit when I ask powering the circuit hex inverter is not inverting the PWM. can anyone help me with? I am using the MC74HC04AN hex inverter.

a 386??  OMG!!!

Its from the logitech z313

cnc machine for servo motor

can you make a godly amp that makes audio company look bad.

And i thought this was gonna be easy...

Stuck at 2.40 due to poor network...traveling..

Hi great scott could you build this project using Arduino? Thank you

make a diy car radio

i did the same ckt but am getting a lot of noise at the output anyone know waht to do

As a DJ and an audiophile, I would love for you to attempt a Class D audio amplifier for a subwoofer in the home. Car subwoofers and amplifiers are amazing but I want to power a nice 12 for my parties. Since im not too electrically knowledged, seeing how you would make one run off of 120 or 240 volts would be amazing and would improve my audio quality without having to spend hundreds of more dollars for a big beefy system that i dont necessarily need right now.

Could this be used with a tesla coil to basically make an "electric" speaker, if you use a class A amplifier for pre-amplification, making a "class AD amplifier"? Any and all suggestions are welcomed, thanks :)

i like this video but it is an class AB D amp, maby title is a bit misleading.

i like this video but it is an class AB D amp, maby title is a bit misleading.

Are you going to make more videos in holiday time????
That would be awesome!!

Can I use the IRF 540 and IRF 9540 mosfet?

3:14 Why did you invert the signal, why cant the mosfet driver use the normal signal? Is that the case for all drivers?

Can i use 74HC14 instead of 74HC04 ??

What is the maximum power of this amplifier?!

Why you have used an inverter?

Would it be possible to install this into a car to act as a car audio amplifier?

I am trying to take this amp and just put an active frequency filter in front of it to get a subwoofer amplifier, I can tell you how it went as soon as I can do the project :D

 @legominimovieproductions  I'm thinking of taking this endeavor myself. I can order the components and take the time to learn how to do it in theory now.

No

GreatScott! :(

Boleh

Zapraszam na odsłuch TPA3116D2 2X100W Bumbox DIY ;) https://youtu.be/Ea0rMW2Q5iA

this circuit can output how many watts?

My hesitation in using Class D is that the audio outputs for any mini stereo boards I have found, do not share a common ground and are not common to the power supply either. I want to make very small stereo boosters for helmets and be compatible with common ground wiring used everywhere else in the signal path as per consumer devices. Or did I overlook something?

cnc machine for servo motor ?

cnc machine for servo motor ?

cnc machine for servo motor ?

where do you get large amounts of prototype board?  ive looked online and i only can fins small pieces, i want to use something to create a custom computer keyboard and i dont want to use a prebuilt board, and i dont really want to buy 5 boards from EasyEDA.

Where do you get the undesigned circuit boards

Reply
2017-09-28
I made it but doesn't get any output at the end of circuit and what about the connection of audio jack (how we can identify the 3 pins out of 5...) please suggest .. any one help me

Have you made a PCB for this yet? Can I have a copy of the file?

I want to buy this circuit from as this is mini project for our clg is  it possible ?

好想学 可惜听不懂😭

Can I ask you to hack these cheap Bluetooth 5.0 true wireless IEM’s? These look like promising until they have a arm processor,’flash storage and a OS running on it. Could it be modified to auto apply equalization ou run some custom code? 

It’s a rtl8763bfr Realtek SoC based units!

Just for reference I’m using one of a brand name QCY model T1 (generic, very cheap and impressively good sound quality), but there also others like xiaomi air dots for example that uses the same SoC

Is easyEDA is now popular than PSpice?

can you make a video on how to make a crystal radio

where u buy prototipe pcb

what if i use IR112 instead of IR113

where you buy that breadboards??

ur english is funny

Why you said at the end this circuit isn't perfect ?

I put it on my to do list

Won't an smd version be more compact and more plausible for compact integration

LM386 is an audio amp. This chip and its supporting circuitry, is the only thing required to create this amp, so there is no need for the other circuitry you presented here.

I want to order this circuit

Rai ka pahad banana to koi isse shikhe😂😂

Maximum output power of this amp?

But some speakers like the Chinese m3 mini 3 watt provides extreme sound quality than regular speakers how the sounds are made

What is the name of a program that you use to draw electronic circuits

Could this be used as an amp for a bass guitar?

the heck u mean class ab

tats a class b

hey scot which pen are you using to draw the circuit??
bcz i need this one

what type of engineering have you studied Scott

what kind of pen is that

whats the sw that you use?

Great Scott ...use a LM380 at the output...I can assure you it is definitely better and distortion free than the cheapest LM386

the circuit file in description, had a wrong number in 1 ic, the "386" is named as "393"

Hey scoot make your Pc


Ps: is not speak english im speak french

Wich pen you are using 🔥🔥

Where did you buy this Portugal AMP ?  Where is it made?  :D

How much watts ? :D

What type of pen do you use

How else would he create the PWM singal modulated around the input signal?

You mean input?

yes yes input....sorry I wrote output by mistake

Well, output is relative :}

LM 384 can also be an option with 5W output..... but Great Scott what was that device which was measuring sound intensity??

stand -rte LM393 is correct, it's a comparator that compares the incoming signal with the sawtooth waveform from the 555.

I need a High power simple design audio power mosfet 100w...thanks

D class

The use of a LM386, an audio power amplifier, as a pre-amp, is a bit over-kill, especially since you were focusing on efficiency from the get-go.  The LM386, with a handful of additional components would deliver nearly 2W on its own - but it's not a class-D amplifier.

ههههههه

Hello, Scott, I would like to contact you.

Could you please provide me your email so I can send you my question.

Thank you very much.

watt ???

PORTUGAL!!!

first comment

SCP CONTAIMENT BREACH a stop it ?!

Which pen do u use

first!!!

lm386 is class ab, this is class abd amp

lm386 is class ab, this is class abd amp

2nd

Wie viel muss vcc sein?

You did not shown Efficiency of this Audio amplifier !!!!

can i use audio amplifier to power step-up transformer produce high volatge electric spark with frequency sama as signal input? for example car ignition coil

i have a idea why not talking about vacuum tubes /valves 😀

The triangle wave from the 555 is really shitty - that’s where all your distortion is going to come from. A much better triangle generator will work wonders for the quality.

To 8 ohms ?

not really.
how you would make that will be by having a circuit that will make high voltage at high frequency (i don´t thing an ignition coil will work, if you can try it with a fly-back transformer) then put a switch (something like a mosfet) and just connect the input of it to this amp

can you make a dual channel amplifier? with cheap components?

How to make a 20w class d audio amp

Wouldn't two inductor stick together will have the effect of mutual inductance? Are those shielded inductors?

What is your favourite component in electronics?

show my how to make a power supply ☺☺☺

second

If someone wanted to get a degree in stuff like this, what would it be?

看不懂😂

What will happen if you remove the inductor from the output stage?
Thanks for the video

Greatscott or anyone here, could you point me in the right direction to understanding the purpose of the high frequency triangle wave ?

I love your videos, except the times where I feel really dumb; which is 80% of the time.  Time to branch out from making computers work and into other areas. :).  It sure does make you wonder how all of this came to be, with out the internet....

Nice video, I got one question:
Can i use a switch mode power supply for powering this amplifier? Wouldn't rhe ripple from smps affect performance?

Can you make 2.1 channel amp which could work on 12v
👍🏻

Had to be left handed

Hi. Will you make a video about creating a LED driver with input voltage 230V and output voltage 60V and maximum current of 300mA ofor a powerful LED panel using 5730 SMD LEDs? My cheap chinese LED driver doesn't work anymore :( http://imgur.com/a/cYF8h
The IC is not labeled.

How much wattage is this amp?
So i may know how big speaker to use.

Just a PSA -- I've received a number if fake IR2113 drivers. Either buy them from a reputable source, or be prepared to fiddle with expected values to order to get them to work. The power consumption on the real part is much lower than the fakes

Hi Scott ! I'm a beginner in electronics and your videos are just awesome. I practice on breadboards but i would like to solder my own circuits. Unfortunately i have no experience. Have you already done a video about soldering on perfboard or are you gonna do it ? Have a nice day

Hey Scott,Great video!!
I have been having a great problem though.I tried to make the portable Bluetooth speaker you made using the pam8403 but can't seem to chose the right speakers for it.Most of them clip at high volume.
I even have the TDA7492P amp but cannot find the suitable speakers.

Please help me out, how to chose the right speakers for amplifier?!

Guys can i use ne555 instead of tlc555
And 7404 instead of 74hc04

vincipaolo esposito u double everithing except 555 triangle voltage and 74hct14

increase the number of mosfets and the Vcc voltage on the mosftets only.

Yes and there will be some multual inductance although those types look semi-shielded.  However shielded
inductors add a lot of distortion in a class D output filter, linear (gapped) inductors are needed to avoid bad
THD figures.  
The crosstalk between inductors will mainly be at the switching frequency rather than audio frequencies, and a 
quality design will space out the inductors to reduce this.

Mr.BassPwr probably C O I L S
(He's said before that he loves LEDs too though )

I have at least 2 project videos about power supplies on my channel.

Electrical engineering or something related

The voltage will be stabilized, but the current will be spiking all around the place

kardeef33317 the the comparator takes the input signal and compares it with triangle wave to convert it into a PWM signals. the duty cycle of which is proportional to input signal (sound waves amplitude). High frequency because it will be easy to recover original signal with less distortion.

No, it's the class A/B amp that can have difficulty with common mode noise...
Class D is almost immune to it because the amplified signal is fundamentally "noise", that gets filtered by the LC to eliminate the high-frequency...
The noise experienced would need to be large enough to produce significant change in the maximum output power - and would only really be experienced at that point, however if the common mode noise signal managed to reach that input preamp (not so much the comparator), then it's entirely possible that would amplify the noise...

dont diy everything just buy 2.1 class d on amazon

4V / 4ohms = 1W

No plans yet

GreatScott! OK thanks for your answer ! Can someone give me a link or some advices to begin soldering ? Thanks

Hrithik Bansal Do you have any bookshelf speakers just to test the amp?

check the data sheets of both ics to see if theres any difference and if there is, adjust the circuit so that it works

Why a 74HC04? Why not to connect the audio signal to the inverting input of the other comparator?

He’s pretty salty.

6:35

Hey, could you make a video about how to make a very powerfully class d amp? which components are important for loud playback and efficiency?  is there a way to make a digital low pass filter m maybe make something like a 2.1 amp? 
you would make the first video of this sort and there would be many many HiFi enthusiasts who would love to see it

Build a 3d printer in a DIY or BUY video

There is a slight mistake at 4:44. The -3dB point equals half or 0.5. The drawing indicates 0.7 which looks to scale, but the frequency amplitude curve drawn indicates a logarithmic scale ;)

DIY or Buy? Yea, DIY is fun and all, but a TPA3116-based board costs 5€...

Have you tried it without the output filter?  The speaker can't follow the 200kHz, so it should find the average position according to the PWM'd signal.  Does the filter make a difference?

Is it possible to create a wirestrip/perfboard design out auf easyeda or similar software?

Can you try build Audio Amplifier only with arduino?? If it is possible

you could probably get away with a BS170 or 2N7000  mosfet with resistor drain load instead of that 74hc04 chip, if you just wanted a single inverter....

Can I use two of them in parallel to get more power?

Could I use an 3 ohm speaker, or it´s only for 4 ohm speeakers? and how much sound pressure (SPL) does this make?

If we are to increase the wattage, what should we do?  ไทยเลนด์

lm386 is not a fuckin opamp omg

u dont use it like an opamp

Hey Great Scott I want an advice from you that 
which type of engineering is good?
Electrical Engineer or
Mechanical Engineer or
Electronics Engineer and communication engineer.

Hello Great Scott, can I just use a split 6 0 -6 supply to the class D or class B amplifier that you have created so far?

Hey scott i just got stupid question..

So if there is a step up transformer why can't we just use AA battery connected to series of step up transformers so we can have a 120-220v dc?

when you are going to make Q and A and C?

automatic power cut off socket how to make a home made for mobile phone charging using timer set 1hr, 2hr ,3hr please help make for video that thinks

in my 5 years in electronics engineering, they have never taught us the theory behind class d amps. thanks for explaining!

I guess , generate PWM  signal .

I dont know if you are still interested but I am using greatscotts schematic and try to build a 2.1 (stereo with sub) amp, I will order the parts in the next days and probably build it at friday or saturday

 @legominimovieproductions  oh lol 4 years later 😯
In the meantime i bought a tpa3255 based class D amp and done the Filtering for 2.1  with a DSP ^^ 
But good luck with your Project, keep me updated how it goes

actually, the -3dB point on a frequency cutoff graph is actually .707 times the maximum voltage. this is usually rounded to .7. what you are calculating is the half power point, which is correct, but his graph is frequency to voltage, not power

You are totally right. Missed that this was frequency to voltage. I was assuming frequency to power as I was recently working with that.

It's essential to the operation of the circuit as it filters out the sinewave drawn up by the PWM signal

If you want to create a layout for a perfboard you can use Lochmaster

Mario Michalik Arduino can't output much current (less than opamp). I guess you could try using arduino as signal for mosfet driver (instead of comparator) but i'm not sure if it's fast enough (pwm frequency should be about 10 times higher or more than signal you are creating)

saves 'wasting' a whole chip...??

just increase the number of mosfets ( in parallel) and the Vcc voltage at the mosfets only

yes you can! also amplifiers do not make sound pressure level (SPL), they just drive the speaker which makes sound pressure! :)

Increase the voltage

I am interested in Circuit designing and I want to do such things that you do.

it should work but it's better if you apply 12 0 12. and it could actually be better because that is how class d amps work( with rail to rail voltage). that way you don't need a dc ofset filter, but here I'm sure it has a dc ofset but he didn't mention it anywhere!

Because transformers only work on AC. When you apply current to the primary, it'll generate a magnetic field. If you use AC, it'll create a constantly changing magnetic field, which is required to induce a voltage to the secondary. Hope you learn something new.

Soon

+GreatScott! ok!  :- )

Agravat Ashish Usually if you gut a microwave you can use the pcb that the numpad and screen is on.You can usually just pull it out power it up with whatever your outlet voltage is and it will have a Normally Open relay rated for your outlet voltage on it rated near the same amperage as the outlet you plug the microwave in.

kardeef33317 
Thanks but I don't have a any microwave so if making a regular component

Its the same as the theory behind switch-mode power conversion.

It's an audio amp people. And not a very good one.   The comments are all over the place.

This would not be dog friendly...

Use discrete transistors and adjustable bias and more resistors and caps and show how it's really done.  Sorry.  I'm an old school tech and like that stuff.  No offense intended.

The NOOB has a question. Why use a LM386 amplifier when we are already making a AMPLIFIER. Shouldn't the class D  amp do all the amplification by itself without the help of the LM386.

does dc voltage actually kill speakers

What is the output power wattage of this circuit that can deliver the speaker?

Better u get Pam 8406

you play pokemon go?..

what is the il measurement device on 4:14 ?

The 386 will add significant distortion. A better amp will reduce this.

Increase the carrier frequency to increase sound quality.

fuck scott, i cant find anywhere that fucking bradboards... where you buy it???

Speakeur

Can we ause a N channel with a P channel MOSFETs instead the two N channel MOSFETs, and erase the ir2113?

Hey Scott, I was just wondering what you studied in university?

fot the money you spent for all the comopnents, you could pay for the electricity a normal amp uses in decades XD

yoooo portuguese microprocessor

what the hell is this ? You can use a mosfet ,a capacitor ,a battery and a speaker and it is all done and working

Can a 555 Timer generate sine wave?

Tried to do a class D amplifier as a final project :/ failed terribly ... how did you make that so easily?

4:35 Isn’t -3dB, around 50% of the original value? Am I missing
something here?

Short answer: yes.  DC current is transformed into heat and you can just burn the coil if voltage (and so current) is high enogh

Small power 🔉

A transistor tester

Not recommended. You can try it but you will probably hear the problems with this setup.

Thanks!

Electrical power engineering

Class D is normal these days...

uhhh, no? these things are pretty cheap?

I don't think so

дядя Kakadu Thank you both ☺

In the video it looks easy but I had to tinker quite a bit as well and try out a couple of different components.

GreatScott! I used ir2110 and irf540n and I burnt through more than 40 of them🙄🙄

The IR211x can be tricky, especially when you don't take into account for transients. I figured it out the hard way as well, make sure to add small resistors to the input signal and especially a gate-source resistor on the FET (I used 1k Rgs).

For Amplitudes it is 70% of the original amplitude. So a decrease of 30%

-3dB "in power" corresponds to ~0.7079xV. It is not -3dB "in voltage".

The class D amps are available as one circuit board just need a power source, speaker, and input jack. Also volume control.

wheres q&a&c??

Isn't class D only used in cheap non-hifi audio equipment and sound pretty shitty? (Distortion)

Thanks for sharing your expert advice and advanced expensive equipment to validate the authenticity of your video. I appreciate a true hobbyist that does these things cause he can. I think its awesome how your showing the signal from the original pre amp to the fully amplified filtered signal (sound). I am glad you included your specs on the components. I can finally move forward with my similar project with confidence of proper sizing of my components and correct IC's. I only get one shot at this because I am not able to buy materials. You have just made my day four years ago today. I never researched this topic on YouTube before but I am thankful I ran across yours. Its been a long few days sorting through all the fake non-proven videos. I harvest my materials from broken electronics people put in the trash. That is very easy. The hard part is the research. I do not have the equipment to achieve the perfect results I insist from myself. Cheers I appreciate all the time, effort, skill, and money you put into this truly educational video. Perfect!!!!Thanks

What will happen first?
A. The sun dies out
B. Class D amplifiers become anywhere near as good as Class A and AB

Seems you got a cold, voice is a bit smear, stay healthy.

why can't you bring things like old TV's etc from junk yard and make something out of it .it will be like recycling

Focused on his breathing...

Sheesh you lost me at induction. They must have covered that in 2nd semester

Class AB amps have better sound quality.

10 min late 
😑

This triangle wave it's rubbish. You need more stable triangle wave :)

I made an amplifier simpler than this

why so sophisticated diagrams? can't draw them on video or make a image and paste on the video? poor thing.

So complicated video...

I fucking hated this section of EE 🤣🤓🤓

So... you don't have a 1uF capacitor laying around somewhere????  Gawd, I've got hundreds!  Typical 1st layer IC decoupling cap...  And why did you not wind your own inductor if you did not have the value?  Got copper wire?  Got a #2 pencil??  40KHz is WAY too high of a value for a speaker that will barely put out 10Khz.  I am just wanting to warn the peeps that might scale your schematic UP to a higher wattage...   :-O  Yes, you cannot "hear" 40Khz, but it can certainly cause your speaker coils to heat up (causing failure).  Locally, we had a church that kept blowing high wattage compression diaphragms.  Yes, you are not expecting ROCK CONCERT levels at most churches...  It was found that a signal at a much higher frequency was on the line (heterodyning radio signals). An inductor installed at the horn cured it!  At a nightclub it was determined that high freqs from a distorted "hi-hat" (cymbal) was blowing the horns out!  Yes, what you CAN'T hear CAN hurt you!  Remember, with a simple LC filter, you are calculating the -3dB cutoff point.  The response will be -3dB down at that point - and only a curve of -12dB per octave above that.  So, at 80Khz (4 octaves above human hearing) you will only be down 15dB!  If your Fc was 20Khz (with a 2nd order filter) you would be down to -27dB!  With a 10Khz cutoff (which would be "barely" noticeable to 90% of the population) you would be down to -39dB!!!   Your tweeter would be totally protected at that point!  :-)  AND, a totally useless waste of money to use silver clad copper wire in the actual circuit.  Silver is the best conductor on the planet BUT only 6% better than copper.  SO, with all other things being equal (i.e not getting into the boring equations) say that the resistance of a same gauge copper wire vs a silver wire -  at 100 feet.  Well, copper (being the baseline) would be at maybe 6 ohms (remember ARBITRARY number - don't flame me over this...).  The silver wire would be still around 0 ohms (or tenths - or hundredth's of an ohm) BUT in your circuit, we are talking about fractions of an inch - not a hundred feet!  PLUS, this is the high impedance part of your circuit!   Silver vs. copper vs. steel vs. aluminium wire would not matter at all (except for maybe their solderability).  (BTW aluminum can not be soldered - easily).  Remembner, what are the leads of your OTHER components made out of???   On the output side (low impedance - 4 ohm speaker) , if you were running a wire more than 50 feet, silver "might" make a slight difference...  but this all gets back to that "audiophiles hear with their eyes" kind of a thing...

It's not Sunday 😂

Hey, you have lost your DC-blocking output capacitor. There are DC voltage on your speaker, and it will damage your speaker quickly!

Great video but why not make something like a hydrogen reactor that work on electrolysis and can provide some fuel 🙂🙂

Soon

Agreed.  I only use class H amps in my rigs, no class D

 @justinquinn7995  Can you describe H-class mode of amplification? Is completely uunfamiliarto me

MrFatjonable it is for me!

Nice to learn the basics of electronics through your videos.Great...Keep going.:)

you need to place the loudspeaker in a designed enclosure to make it sound good.

this is wrong circuit

Hi man, wonderful videos loving it. It would be great if you make a video on a 'high amp motor controller' suitable for the electric motorcycle. It would be great and you would contribute for the betterment of the world. DIY electric motorcycle conversion get a big tol by the high price of motor controller. People  get demotivated with it, your contribution would be valuable by a huge community.

I think you could try emitter degeneration on your amps/comparators, as your descrete transistors arent well matched as they would be on IC's. :) in bias current outputs, the Vce is larger, so they get hotter and lower threshold, so current increases even more until your operating point is way off.

Love the look of that PCB! 👏

The main problem I have had with class D amplifiers in my audio system is massive interference on the FM dial from all the high frequency EMI/RFI they emit, so if you are a radio listener, this is to be considered.  They sound close to what a tube amp sounds like, but not quite as smooth as a well-designed class A (if you aren't concerned about efficiency, of course). 

If they can effectively solve the EMI/RFI problem inherent in class D, they would be nearly the perfect amplifier.

DIY Class D? This is SCP?

class d amp? check at alibaba or aliexpress
$20-30 for the board parts no case
$40-50 for ready to use

So is "fuck-up-wire" a well-known scientific term?  5:15

not first sry 😓

What?

What sorcery is this?😥😥😥
P s: I'm NOT an electrical engineer.

barely an amplifier.. more like a fuzzbox - where's the negative feedback ??

I currently building an USB DAC interface with an stm32 and and a very powerful ti audio DAC

Bro just adding some useless things for show off ,😂😂

You want to explain this enough that we can modify your circuit to our own specs? For example, why did you need to invert the PWM into the mosfet driver. were you trying to keep it in phase with the source? That's absolutely not neccassary. How the fuck did you cretae the DC offset on the input? I'm sure there's more to it than just "use a potentiometer". Also, how do you avoid DC offset when there's no input signal? Wouldn't that force the output of the low side fet low, which would fry your speaker?

3:10 "Uh LM393" you ok?

Hai Sir Thanks For your great useful Video
 Sir Make A Video For Diy Inverter Pls Sir Its Important For me For My Project 
Thank you Sir

The most important thing here is to balance out your decision.

50-60% seems bad compared to 90-95%, but a Class D is far more complex and thus draws more power to begin with relative to a Class A amplifier.

Kannst du bitte auch mal Videos auf deutsch machen?

lol 2:52 t i thought it was ohmie hahahaha

for high current motor control ,use the 555 timer pwm circuit with very high current rated N channel MOSFET like IRFP260N ,but use a separate power supply like 5v to power 555 or 7805 voltage regulator.

Don't sweat it

GreatScott! ok.. big brotha

Aperson "*a lm393"

Yeah. Not the best pronunciation but watever.

@2:45 "The homie region"

can you build a powerful laser

