Was wondering why no one had a video for this. Thank you ! And many thanks for getting the analog.

very nice whoop . stay safe Lee

Big fan of DarwinFPV.  Best entry-level kit on the market, in my opinion.  Lots of solid design details, and their build quality is as rugged as necessary.  Great value.  If I hadn't just finished my own 2-inch cinewhoop build, I'd be all over this one.

Hi Lee  Great video and review of the Darwin CineAPE25, I have been looking at Darwin for a couple of their quads. I just built a 7in using the Darwin 129 7in frame,  I just noticed this one last week and thought it was interesting.  Thanks again for the video and information about this quad.

thats a nice one.

Niiiice to see analog getting a look in 😎
Just placed my order 👍
Thank you for being you mate 🤝😎🤗
I wish they didn’t use the ant though 😮

I learned a good one today; you can take a birds nest, add dupont connectors, and you get an airplane. Don't believe me? I got a VTOL T1 Ranger when I did it.

Nice video!! , anyone plays with thoughts on pairing this (or pavo25 or...) with the new dji O3, I think it would be nice (or not!?), would this fit in, and be still under 250grams !??

I'm keeping an eye on it👀 seems like a good option to use an insta go2 😃

can it carry a caddx walnut.

That screech is a feature of pushers.  I'd flip the build and fly it as a whoop.  Looks do-able.  I'd lose a little trust, but that's not important for this type of platform.  And I'd use 5-bladed Gemfans.

Hello, does anywone know what the max camera angle is? Like 30 degrees or 45 degrees.

Hi Lee. Great review. Did you land up putting the walksnail avatar 1s mini vtx in there? Is the frame compatible to just swop out the analogue vtx with the walksnail?

was für eine Firmware Version muss ich Flaschen ?

What stickmode does it come with ?

Does it come with a cable already soldered for sbus?

I have an ELRS version.  But, it does not bind with my Zorro ELRS nor TX12 Mk II ELRS.  I also tried BetaFlight in order to bind, but the Bind Receiver button does not appear.  Any tips?  Thanks.

I have the ELRS version but I don't understand what the RX target is and I can't find it written anywhere on the site.... does anyone have an idea what it is?

Thanks

Can you test it with a full size GoPro for us?

I got same quad with ELRS receiver but having difficulty to bind with literadio 2 SE V2 SX1280 transmitter. Any guidance on it would be appreciated.

I'd check with the seller for the latest specs... Best of luck

Are the ExpressLRS versions the same?

It's a betafpv receiver.

I don't have it here anymore so can't. Happy flying

Check out https://youtu.be/PBQEKThumt8

i recently got ahold of one of these . i binded to my flysky and i can see everything in my goggles bit i cannot start this thing up.? i only haveca chrome book .. any guidence?? please thank you

Did you run into issues getting blackbox to log to a sd card? I've tried 5 different sd cards. It either doesn't log or only logs 2-3 sec out of a 30 sec flight.

what is the size of camera that I can use to replace the stock caddx ant?

My favorite quoad for neighborhood flying. Any chance that INav will ever be supported?

You can fly this in acro right? Because I can't fly in angle without going in circles lol

Can it cary gopro hero 11? Tnx for answering

what battery are this whoop use xt30 or xt60

I'm a line of sight freestyle flyer. Would this or the Betafpv pavo 25 v2 be better?

Hey, great video. Would you prefer the i-flight protek R25 analog, or the Darwin cineape analog? I'm torn between the two

Interesting video, cineape25 uses what size bolts to mount the action camera on top?

iv had mine since befor xmas and found that the battery voltage and amps wasnt very accurate and had to tune it in. How was yours?

What better fpv camera could I use that fits in that support?

does it have a gps ?

Is the video in the glasses the same as the video or better?

How did you get the barometer to work?

Did you solder on an XT60 power plug?  I watched your video, ordered one which was here 4 days later and then grabbed one of my 4S battery packs excitedly and then.... humph, XT15 plug on my CineAPE 25.  You have the XT60, but the other YT FPV channel with a video of this also has the XT15... So I'm confused.  I ordered a XT15 to XT60 adapter on Amazon, so hopefully it's here today (advertised with next day ship, but I've seen that fall through before).

Does it come with xt60 or 30 connector?

I just received mine, what is that random cable (sticking out) coming from the SBUS? What is it for?

You need to arm it. See my RTF Quad setup guide... Best of luck

Cpu overloaded, decrease main task to 2khz

I didn't try that and don't have the model here so try. Best of luck

Oscar did a good comparison https://oscarliang.com/nano-fpv-camera/

Keep checking the INAV targets for the flight controller. Happy flying!

I don't see why not... Happy flying

I don't have it here to try.  Best of luck

I received mine 3 days ago and it has the XT30.

Possibly. Better in what way?

I have not flown the i-flight so can't make a comparison. Sorry.

 @Painless360  thank you. I'm looking forward to a video soon. It looks very good

I don't have it here any-more to check for you. Best of luck!

 @Painless360  thank you

I've been using a timer for this. I am not flying it a lot due to the poor FPV image..

@Painless360  ah. I'm new to fpv and only seen analog though that camera and a mobula7 1s. What camera would you suggest for a upgrade ?

Phoenix 2 or toothless 2?

 @Painless360  thanks! Ill look them up :)

Mine didn't but check the website for the latest..

I'm not sure I understand the question. Can you elaborate?

 @Painless360  I mean is the video in fpv glasses the same as in the video or a little better

I didn't do anything... Happy flying

 @Painless360  ok then mine is broken :(

The model is shown as it arrived. Sometimes things change. Happy flying

 @Painless360  True.  I wish mine had came with the mini go pro mount, as the thumb pro camera comes with mini mount.  Have you seen a mini to normal go pro mount converter that's light?  My two FPVs are 4S (home built and this CineAPE).  Do you think it's wise if I just chop off the XT30 it came with and solder on a XT60?  I put on a converter and now it's this huge monstrosity.

Not sure what you are referring to. Can you see it in the video?

