Hi everyone - It's come to my attention that there has been someone masquerading as myself, responding to some comments here with a link to a Telegram chat to win a prize from me.  THIS IS A SCAM, I am not holding a contest, nor do I have a Telegram account.  PLEASE DO NOT RESPOND TO THESE MESSAGES!!

It's happening on a lot of my videos, I'm taking steps to remove them manually, but as I have 162 videos, it will take some time.  If you do run across a suspicious comment, I would appreciate you letting me know at info@dronebotworkshop.com.

Thanks!  

Bill (The real one!)

This deserves appreciation. One of the best explanation of Op-Amps and demonstrations. Thank you very much.

Your videos are of the highest quality! You obviously put a lot of time and effort into making them, and it is greatly appreciated.

Sorry for taking SO long to get another video out, as many of you are aware, we had an ice storm last month that cut my power off for 5 days, and dropped a tree onto my house and another one onto my car.  So lots of interruptions while we got that sorted out, and it delayed me from working in the workshop. The tree is off the house now, and I have a rental while the car is being repaired, so I should have another one out shortly. Hope you enjoy this one!
Bill

“I need to learn about op-amps” sees dronebot workshop video “hoho here we go!”

I have watched numerous explanations of operational amplifiers and this is the best. I really appreciate the documentation you make available. It makes it much easier to actually replicate your demonstrations, trying to follow along with a video is much too frustrating. Thank you for your commitment to teaching others.

Thanks for bringing back memories from 45 years ago!

best explanation so far on whole www I managed to find.

I found this extremely helpful. Thank you so much.

i really love this video - i looked it the 3rd time now

What an amazing video. Quality is very good as always. No video disappoints.

This is the absolute best Op Amp video I've ever seen.  Subscribed.

Great demonstrations. Much clearer than what I learnt back at school 13yrs ago. Good job

I always try to guess the catch phrase at the beginning,  I was sure you'd go for "there's a lot to gain so let's begin" I was wrong of course.

Watching this I think I need to buy a box of assorted op amps for various shenanigans.

Excellent video, so well laid out. Thank you.

Most clear and detailed explanation of Op amp I ever seen. Thanks a lot

Thank you very much for the video 
This was a very helpful video about Op-Amp 

I really enjoyed the video

Brilliant vid my friend , re - learned a whole load about Op-amps that I'd forgotten , thank you !

The usual high standards that we've learned to expect! Great video, with flawless production. 

Sorry to hear about the devastating ice storm. It's remarkable that you could still produce this video. Best wishes for a speedy "recovery", Bill!

Yep, just got one and reported it.

Thanks for posting this.  I got the "prize" response, but I was pretty ssure it was a scam.  Nobody offers prizes to somebody who never joined the competition unless they are expecting to get something out of it.  Did you ever hear the upshot from anybody biting at the bait?

Ok Sir

Give Telegram a try though

 @AxissXs  not the point!

Glad you are safe... Mother Nature can really show who's boss. Thanks for the update and the new tutorial.

Wow! Glad to see you are safe! As usual, an excellent video.

Sorry to hear that 😢

dual tree input

Sorry you had all that misfortune.
Regarding your non inverting op amp circuit:
Your non inverting amplifier with the two equal resistors actually has a gain of 2 because the output is divided by 2 and voltage at the inverting input matches that at the non inverting.  The gain formula for this configuration is 1 + (Rf / Rd)

Excellent video, you are very attentive and professional😀

Hi Bill, Hope you sort everything out soon. Chin up. Cheers Jase :)

excellent video, btw. thanks

thank you so much for making videos again! !

Bill, you’re the best! I learn so much from your lessons, thank you 🎉

Glad your back, was just thinking about how many op amp videos i watched and understood nothing when looknig at your  thumbnail , i thought id click anyway not realizing it was your video, and wow was I happy to see that, finally have a chance to understand something!  Ive been getting some oddly bad luck myself and in these times its easy to say screw it and get dragged down, but the times i didnt, and actually did something positive in response, I was actually returned with even better luck.  Amazing luck now that i think of it, so keep up the good work and good things will follow.

Sorry to hear that also, hope everything is now ok. Winter and even spring can really be a drag up here!

Stay safe please

Can have a video on esp32 wroom 32d to run autopilot by bluetooth from phone

Oh my godness! 

You gave everyone of is so much joy, what about crowdfunding to support you in this time? „Set up an Account and lets refund the effort today …“

Regards from Germany ;-)

Glad you sorted out.

Gains are imp😅

Terrific video.  I love analog electronics, too.  This obviously took you a while to produce.

Great Great Wonderfull tutorial !!!!!!👌👌👌

Looks very versatile!👍👍👍 Thank you!

You are the best youtuber at tech side when it comes to presenting the content who is not just hurry to present something in a rash (Hope I am correct ). Excellent !!!!!!

Thank you very much for very useful projects and ideas of using opamps. This splitter power supply is fantastic.

What a wonderful video. You enlighten the world. Great service to humanity.

Good video. You put in a LOT of work to make it.

video was well done I enjoyed it very much.

Very useful, I will put a link on my PC to remind me about OPAMP circuits when I need one...

Nice video. Specially the last part about negative voltage supply. Thanks

Thank you for the great explanation!  I studied op amps in school back in the mid '70's, but never such a good explanation! 😀

You are much better than great scott guy❤

Thanks so much for a very extensive and useful material you took the time to developed for this video. Best on the topic !! 🏆🏆🏆

This excellent video spares a book. You have the talent to explain complicated things simply. 👍

Good day, Mr. Bill, with regards to the non-inverting amplifier, the actual formula is (1 + RF/RD) * VIN, so the actual amplifier gain when using 1k ohms as RF and 1k ohms as RD is actually 2, which explains why the output sine wave is bigger.

Wonderful video.

I've been a long time viewer but extremely infrequent commenter. I just wanted to say that I truly and sincerely appreciate your videos. I very much appreciate your clear even comprehensible tone and explanations. I truly appreciate what a valuable tool your videos are and how much value they have brought to my project. Thank you very much

Thank thoo for thteaching uth about ob-ambth!
I hope thoo continue makig theth typesh of vithootsth.

Thanks Bill 👍 I am really enjoying your channel!

Best electronics video of all time. All different uses of an op amp including low pass and high pass filters, ...that was unexpected. I wanted to learn about op amps and active crossover circuits and this video killed many birds in one shot.

Oh my God, thank you for this. I was getting confused seeing why the output is bigger and i learned from other channel that the gain has +1 into it.
Bravo, sir

I love your videos man. Your channel is elite for electrical engineering.

Thanks for such a clear and concise intro to op-amps!

Thanks Bill, another great video! Sorry to hear about your troubles hope they are resolved soon.

Bill,

I'm very sorry to hear about the ice storm and the damage it did to your vehicle.  I'm glad you are ok!  This was another wonderful video.  Thank you for addressing op amps, a challenging subject.  You made them a lot more approachable.  Thank you also for noting that the formulas for gain are estimations and explaining why (the mention of not including impedances in the formulas).  This video is going to help so many people better understand this subject.

Great video !!!

Also I would be happy to join groups so I can learn all the principles that is possible 😊

Thank you very much ! So helpfull !!!!!

Yeah I noticed your absence! Glad to see you're back and that everything gets sorted out. Very informative video and a nice recap of things that I almost had forgotten.

Such a timeless video! Thanks a lot

fantastic video and resources, thank you very much!!!

Sounds like you've been having fun Bill 🙂 Great to have another video. Keep up the great work.

Spot on and great easy to understand instruction, even for a beginner and a amateur like me.
Great content as always!

You just made me feel really old as I remember when the 741 Opp Amp was released 1968.  They were a hassle to design circuits for as they required two power supplies, both a positive and negative with a shared ground.  The LM324 (1974) was so much easier to use with its single sided supply.

Great video, very useful. Thanks a lot

I actually thought this was an old video. Had to watch it all just to know my assumption was incorrect. 
Thanks DBW

Awesome video!

You are such a good teacher, this is mind boggling. Way better than teachers I had at university!

This video is sensational! You are the Albert Paul Malvino of YouTube.

Excellent explanation- will be very helpful for me in developing some circuits for hobby project.

Great content as always, I have learned more from this channel than I did in school!

Maaybe as old as me. I used two 741 op amps in the early '70's to build an electronic théremin, with two capacitive plates for control of tone and volume through respective variable, high frequency oscillators and superhetherodine amplifiers whose residual frecuency, in one of them, was rectified and converted into gain control for the other's audio amplifier.

I’ve got to take the prerequisite class to this video. This is very obviously a super informative video. I’ve been learning a lot from this channel. There are just too many concepts and terms I haven’t learned yet. This one will go in the watch later folder.

It is kind of wild how Op Amps are a sort of physical nexus between mapping continuous values to a discrete space (and vice versa)

Incredible info and presentation.  Thank you so much 👏

Nice coverage Bill. You did a good job of boiling down to the essentials.

Very helpful. I need to create a dual power supply to convert a usb battery to 9v dual power for a potentiostat. Gives me some very helpful info on the fundamentals

Greetings. The crkt you have at about 39 minutes, is used on B-1B aircraft. I added a small cap from the opamp output to the common emitter. This allowed a small amount of current (few mA) to flow during the opamp swing between one BE to the other BE transition.  It greatly reduced "noise" and reduced the output impedance passing thru open circute etc

Good video! I'm 74 YO retired electrical engineer. USA NCE 1982 Thanks

Very clear instruction 😊

Thank you very much! This is of great value!

Thanks for the quality content as usual ❤

Sorry for the trouble you've had with the Ice storm, I can relate (more or less...) We've had a really heavy Hail storm around our place that caused a huge roof leak... all fixed now ! And really happy to watch your videos once again, always something informative there. Keep up the great work (and yes it takes Work !), and courage !

Thank you, for this Super good Video agin!

As usual an excellent video

Thanks. Always great information.

Excellent video well thought out and clear. Op amps the adjustable wrench of electronics.

Very cool! Liked and subscribed!

Fantastic video as always. I'm sure all your viewers hope all that storm damage is fixed as soon as possible. Picturing the storm damage in my mind  led to my imagining how you may have dealt with such a testing situation. What came to mind was an incredibly calm and serene and methodical step by step resolution to all the problems. Perhaps one day you could share the story in more detail? How the interactions with the relevant parties went etc. I can only imagine your methods of dealing with this situation would be a lesson to most of the rest of us viewers too. I know I wouldn't have been calm and methodical if a tree had landed on my house and another one on my car too! I can't imagine you getting angry or losing the plot at all!

You sir explain better. Thank you.

A brilliant and helpful video. Thank you so much

As always . . .  very informative :)

im really impressed . Not all circuits require microcontrollers

Loved it; thank you so much.!

Awesome video, thank you!

Excellent, Excellent, Excellent.  Thx!

Great video as usual. Thanks!

Brilliant lesson thank you

Thank you,
Verry good Video.

Very good video, excellent explanation, I myself used op-amp 741 to build a triggering circuit for Silicon Controlled Rectifier. to control DC motor speed.

Excellent video Bill, very nicely laid out, good graphics as always and great explanation. Thank you!

Excellent presentation.

Nice video, thanks :)

Very nice video

Excellent!!

Excellent video!  Very well done and explained thoroughly!  Liked!  Subbed!!

Nice explained 👌👍

Thanks for this, very helpfull video.

Thankyou for your effort

Great video

Very good overall OpenPlay tutorial as always well done!!

Bill, Thank you very much. In the frequency equation you missed the pi in the denominator.

Meant to say OpAmp not OpenPlay? …….

Cool,now I understand solar follower...

Oh wow goldmine thank you

Thank you so much ✌

Any new student starting Electrical Engineering should watch your videos before going to class. Understanding the principles you put forth would help when the student is presented with circuit analysis problems from a dry as bones professor. I speak from personal experience from 30 years ago.

For inverting and non-inverting amplifiers, the voltage gain AV should not have the Vin term as a multiplier since AV=Vout/Vin. So AV=-RF/Rin for the inverting amplifier and AV=(1+RF/RD) for the non-inverting amplifier. What is shown is actually the output voltage Vout. The extra 1 term in AV for the non-inverting amplifier has already been pointed out in a previous comment.

An excellent and comprehensive lesson and a perfect job. Thank you. You can make a metal detector for us and distinguish metals by sound:yt::buffering:

Thanks, master

Minor point, but an offset voltage in the range 1-10mV is the typical offset at the input, not the output. Others have commented on other relevant points. But a very well presented tutorial. Many thanks.

C'mon, no nod to the 741?  😊  Outstanding job sir!

Great vid. Thanks

Well i must say i am very impressed by this tutorial. 
I think probably the best and easy understanding video i have seen in a very long time, and i´ve seen a lot of tutorials but they are so over-mathematical and complicated. 
You are a very inspiring person for both young and old folks who are new to micro computing and small electronic hobbys.

I have recantly diving into the arduino and rpi pico djungle of projects and try to sort all fun and facts in my head cause it´s a lot to take in.

Very helpful!

Thank you.

Toujours aussi instructif et divertissant! La meilleure chaîne de ce genre !bravo !

damn good,,, clear....  u should make most basic fully illustrated short books

circuit era is starting

Number one good!!

Very very nice video

Pronam   sir  pronam

You're like the Bob Ross of Electronics Design. I took a course in analog electronics and spent a lot of time around the theory of Op Amps, but never really got taught about some of their more practical applications. This video was great at keeping things simple, to the point, and wonderful demonstrations to accompany each example. I've liked your videos for a long time, keep up the awesome work!

Very good lesson Bill! I needed a refresher. I am working in NBA circuit to take a 0 -5 vdc control and set it up to run several independent motor controllers. My 1st thought was to feed the single control voltage to several unity gain op amps so that each one could then be the control input to its corresponding controller and track properly the changes of the input voltage. The 324 should do the trick.

We had a teacher as dry a it gets, but the practical experimenting (that was in the curriculum) helped a lot.

Was going to say the same, good catch!

Il est très bon!

I love op amps too❤😁👍

Thank you

Thanks for the content.   I have a BUGBOOK on op amps by Howard Berlin in my library.   I just looked, it has a first printing date of 1977.   I’ve had it since then.   For you younger viewers we used real books before the evolution of the internet.

Hi Bill, Hopefully everyone and everything has been  recovered after the recent ice storm in your city! ,

rgrds,

Marios

buen articulo gracias por la informacion refrescante

Awesome

Your non inverting amplifier with the 2 equal resistors actually has a gain of 2 because the output is divided by 2 and voltage at the inverting input matches that at the non inverting.  The gain formula for this configuration is 1 + (Rf / Rd)

Great 👍

If only the WWW and videos like this were available in the 1970s when i as a teenager was trying to get my head around 741 op-amps.

i just made my first amplifier that actually sounds good with an op amp. i used LM358 for it. when i turn the gain up high enough, it even picks up radio signals lol, so i totally see why audio equipment is always in faraday cages. for the dual supply i just used the other side of the LM358 with another NPN transistor and a voltage divider to provide my common ground.

Hope you all are doing well!

EXCELLENT.

I want you to make a video that an opamp and a micro controller can be used to generate a sine wave

Thanks 🙏👍💖🌹💫✨🙏

The most critical point you have made was about the amplification range that it is limited to power supply limit (rail-to-rail). 99% of the videos are misleading, present like op-amps could amplify to the moon. Thanks a bunch.

good stuff here

Sir, can you give the calculations to understand or modify the project for the single to dual voltage converter to get any  desired dual output voltage in place of the 10 volts in the given project? That apart,  a special thanks for your videos- they  are always well crafted for clarity & i always appreciate the efforts you put in to make them & give it to us.

how timely, my "Design with Operational Amplifiers and analog Intergrated Circuits" book by Segio Franco 1988 just arrived this morning! Great lecture and experiments. Sorry to hear about your disaster.

can you please check the gain equation for the non inverting amp configuration (23 min). i believe that will be (Av = 1+ Rf/Rd)

can you make video on how one port and two port network synthesis applied practically on designing ckts like filters and amplifiers, thank you.

Yes

Sir please through some light on propagation delay,inverting versus no inverting confoguration.

Very usefull, thanks. Regarding Rd and Rf resistors in inverting and non inverting amp, nobody ever tells us about the range of resistors. For example you used 1K for both but what about 5.6K for both or 10K, or 47K. It is about ratio but I have seen it doesn't work the same if I change the values although it is the same ratio and I spend hours of trial and error without understanding why.

Please could you zoom out a bit, your hand actions are important when you are giving your lectures, and I think on previous videos itt shows how good an orator you are.

Wonderful video your videos are very useful I learnt a lot and design my own circuits now. Could you please teach us MPU6050

Thanks!

Very good evening respected BILL.FROM IBDIA USM.NICK NAMED NR. INDIA AND THANK YOU VERY MUCH FORBYOUR CHANNEL FROM OPAM TO AURDUNIO COMPLETE DIGITAL MUCRO CONTROLKERS FOR ALL ELECTRONICS ENTHUSIAST AND STUDENT.EXPECTING MUCH MORE LIKE COMPLETE
AURDUINO TUTORIAL ESP.TUTTORIAL.and building KABARARATORY DC PIWERSUPPLY OTO 30V 10AMP WITH CCCV SHORTCIRCUIT VENCH POWERSUPPLY DUAL DC WITH LED VOLT ANDVUURRENT METER WATT DISPLAY ALLIN ONE. AMETTER

I should have watch this 20 years ago 😕

Plz make a video on which op amp model is best for precision full wave rectifier implementation for enabling arduino to measure negative voltages

شكرا

I’m so amused, to be precise I’ve been a fun of electronic but now I am more than a fun I want to be a professional

In oneseries of electrical video PL do teach how to do rewinding of fan armature,ac dc motor and servo motor.and test 3ph motor on singlephase supply.any motor rewinding.indetailed.

Not sure if someone pointed this out already, but non-inverting gain is 1+rf/rd so your gain would be 2 where both resistors are 1k. (which it showed on the oscilloscope)

You know.. for $0.10 you could get a CH32V003.  It's a 32-bit 48Mhz RISC-V2A processor with 2KB SRAM and 16KB Flash... 10 cents in quantities of 50 for the 8-pin variant.  It actually costs more in shipping than it costs for the device... and it comes with a built-in Op-Amp :)  Analog op-amp exposed right to the pins (with a bit of configuration).  

Single-side supply, but still useful. Doubt the specs are particularly impressive, but whatever.

So, you could buy a 10-cent op-amp for your project... and it comes with an MCU for, you know... whatever.  :)  Crazy world we live in now.

Oh, and thanks for the refresher course.  I wanted to try out this integrated op-amp... figured I should start with the basics.

Hello, welcome to you.

👌

Its very good!! I would very much like to know where to place my regulators if i want to do so, especially adjustable ones? That is on the dual psu output side.👌👌👌👌

gee, no mention of the old dinosaur LM741. (my age is showing) ;-)

Technically the regular TL072 op amp does not have a 5.25 Mhz bandwidth, but actually 3 Mhz. The confusion is Texas Instruments have a new variant of that op amp with an H at the end, the TL072H and it does have a 5.26 Mhz bandwidth.

Can't the the LM358 not be used with both dual and single power supply?

How does the Ne55232 receive feedback to pin 2 at NO DC load at the Output ?  
Without a DC LOAd the circuit is unstable since TIP31C, TIP32C are both OFF .

You are very welcome!

Yes, good catch, some of the top rated comments here pointed that out. I dont think Bill responds to a lot of comments, but to be fair his vids have a tone of comments.

and it is still made

Aren't there even approaches of creating an ic for neural nets where each node is made by like a single opamp?

👏 👏 👏
👍👍👍

❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️🙏🙏🙏

At 17:49 - "The +ve and -ve power supply can be up to 15V" - so we'll just connect it to 18V (9V + 9V) - the chip has no connection for the mid-point of the two batteries, which is used as a pseudo-ground reference.

Thanks

Does anyone else think the op amp schematic looks a lot like Spy vs Spy?

hello sir, is there in your video about controlling stepper motors from the website with phpmysql thankyou

I have some 'analog' q. about your ADC example at 31:00.
1 - What is the purpose of the 10uF cap connected to the 470R resistor? I'm assuming the 470R is there to stop one adjusting to infinite gain.
2 - Why does the nonInvert have a 10K voltage divider
3 - what is the purpose of the 10uF across the lower 10K
4 - Why is there a 1M from the voltage divider into the nonInvert input

noice.

8min in and already questioning the voltage inverter and the sine wave generator that doesn't need some shaping components.  Hmmm.

How can I time the led "on" to military sec?

How come so many great miniature preamps have so many components unlike this off Op Amp circuitry?

why didnt they teach us this stuff at school ?? no one would have bunked off :)

Sir pl show details of your lab instruments you have iwant to build same kind of small lab as an enthusiastiand hobbyist.

The "active filters" shown are not active filters. They are just buffered passive RC filters. Active filters use reactive components (i.e. components whose impedance is a function of frequency, very commonly capacitors in op amp circuits) in the feedback path of the amplifier.

Hello, Could you elaborate exactly what more do you gain on using this op amp light switch circuit over a simple LDR voltage divider with a transistor ( or two ) ?

Always wating for the n'est vid thank à lot sir...by the way i have à question .how can i to drive à led cube with only audio signal (music) and arduino mean without à third p part circuit or à simple ic ... 41:02 any tips are welcome

@DroneBot Workshop - Hi DroneBot, Actually, the way that an OpAmp works is that the Output will give a value of whatever it takes to make the inputs equal. If there is no feedback from the Output back to the Inputs, then if the Inverting Input is greater than the Non-Inverting Input, the Output will swing to the value of the Negative Power Supply (minus a little amount for the active components in the supply. Only Rail to Rail OpAmps can actually reach the Supply Voltage). If the Non-Inverting Input is greater than the Inverting Input, the Output of the OpAmp will swing to the value of the Positive Supply (again, minus the little value that the active components take to make the supply). In Rail to Rail OpAmps, the Supply Voltages can be reached. The bottom line, though, is that if the OpAmp does not have feedback from the Output to either Input (but typically the Inverting Input), the OpAmp functions as a Comparator, and the Output will be the approximate value of the Power Supply for whichever Input dominates.

In dc circuits can you use the same voltage supply for VCC+/-  and V In 1/2 ?

An extremely important concept, arguably the single most important concept, is that of the "virtual short circuit" between the inverting and non-inverting inputs.

When an op amp is operated closed loop (with feedback) it acts to keep the voltage difference between the two inputs at zero. With real op amps the voltage won't be exactly zero because of finite gain, finite bandwidth and input offset voltage, but it will be very close.

Without understanding this, the feedback networks used to determine the behavior of the circuit make no sense. 

For example, the inverting amp with a gain of -1, as shown at about 20:00
The NII is connected to "zero volts" ("ground'). That means that when the loop is closed with feedback, the inverting input will also be at zero volts. The current from the input source through the 1k resistor (again as shown in the video) will be 1 mA per volt. Let's say we apply +0.5 volts, so we have a current of 0.5 mA flowing toward the input pin (conventional current, flowing from positive to negative). It can't flow into the input pin because of the high impedance of that pin, so where does it go? It MUST go through the feedback resistor. If we have 0 V at the input pin and a 1 k feedback resistor from input to output and that resistor has a current of 0.5 mA through it, the voltage drop across it must be 0.5 V with the input-pin end at zero. The output pin must therefore be negative 0.5 volts. The gain of the circuit is therefore minus one. If we used a 10 k feedback resistor, it would still have 0.5 mA through it, flowing in the same direction. The output would have to go to -5.0 V to allow that current to flow. +0.5 V in, -5.0 V out - a gain of -5.

And thank you as well!

Definitely 3:56

greetings ... How about teach us how to create OBD , OBD2 Scanner .. using Wire Or ESP32 .. it will be great project we need to enhance  CAR Things .

Great videos thanks! This and the NE555 was especially useful. I hope you do more on common IC's. Is there a big difference between opamps and comparators like the LM339?

What happened to the DB-1 project??

38:56 - should we deal with cross-over distortion between NPN and PNP base inputs? or will it be smooth-out by 100uF caps?

Does the feedback has to always connect to minus point? Can it be done the opposite way connected to positive side?

22:37 I want to offer a correction to the gain formula here. Inverting does follow the -Rf/Ri but the noninverting gain follows 1+Rf/Ri, so for setting Rf and Ri equal, the gain 2 which better matches your oscilloscope readout.

Otherwise very informative video and of the op-amps, as I work with 5V sources a lot, I go by the MCP6022 almost religiously, using a virtual ground set at 2.5V for sinusoidal operations

Very good video.  Much to learn here.  I have a solar power system that contains an inverter and I have a 48vdc battery bank.  The current in/out on the battery bank is large (30amp charging and 100 amp out for inverter).  I am designing a circuit that monitors the shunt resistor on the battery negative terminal.  That would be 75mv/100amp shunt.  I want to read both charge and discharge into an ESP32 with 3.3vdc limits.  I designed a circuit with half the MCP6002.  My design failed.  I tested the mcp6002 1/2 circuit with 3vdc ramp in to differential setup with 4: 10K resistors.  I was amazed to see the mcp6002 limited 1.3vdc below supply (2vdc).  I apparently fail to understand this.  Any help greatly appreciated! Doug

Hello sir I have a few questions i learning about programming ic but I need to know if comparator cont be use to controller any pwm duty cycle as a PID control to track solar maximum power point using a current sensor with op amp to amplifier the current sense voltage and feedback it to the comparator to adjust the duty cycle so am asking can it work thank you for your reply

Just to add to the video, there isn’t actually a clean way of doing voltage1 * voltage2 with op amps. It’s extremely hard and you’ll need to do some complex tricks like working with non-linear components, adding them up, then using the inverse of the first step. If you have a discrete number of values for one of the inputs, you might as well switch in fixed value resistors to do a makeshift multiplication.

Can you make a video how to use offset null on UA741 op amp. There is virtually no information about how to do it.  They all say ground the inputs but nothing specific.  I tried many variations and no results.

That was super thanks de wb8idy

Good to see you up and running. Sounds like you were insured. Were you the only one in the neighborhood that mother nature had a beef with?
Question, in some of the schematics Vin+ show conected to gound. This is most likely because of my lack of knowledge of electronics but it's confusing me.

any idea why my buffer would buffer my negative rail to -3.5 volt but when I do my positive i'm only getting 1v my supply is 9v?

Thank you very much! Awesome work and great explanations.

Great video. Thanks !!

Great video! Thank you.

Thank you

Thanks!

Is there a reason why when connected to ap amp vcc and ground only, my arduino 5v power source turns off?

Thanks!

Comparators    switch faster, wide input range, and can swing closer to the voltage rails

From what I've come across  op-amps begin to wear down when working close to the rails for an extended period of time. Comparators will last longer and can often come with built-in hysteresis to avoid erratic spiking when the 2 input voltages are close to each other

Good eyes! Yes, the gain should be (1+RF/RD) using the notation presented. The scope shot did show that the output was in phase and the amplitude of the output was higher than the input amplitude. With RF=RD=1k, the gain should be 2. However, it seemed that the gain was higher than 2 since the scope channels were at 50mV/div for Channel 1 and 500mV/div for Channel 2.

 @Vahe.Caliskan  i couldn't see both channel settings but they were off by a factor of 10, which I assumed was likely different probes that didn't have the proper scaling since some use 10x and others use 1x

Glad the 'commenters' saw that, it was a glaring error, it might not make a difference at 'higher' gains, (I.e. A gain of 101 not 100, doesn't give a big error as a gain of let's say 11 instead of 10).

Good catch. I noticed that as well.

And thank you as well!

Thank you!

I don't get. It you're inputting a frequency or generating ?  Is op amp creating a frequency from DC supply or just increasing voltage output of already inputed low voltage frequency?

Can I use an op-amp or op-amps  for a HF ADC ?

hi . i need some advice . i have board with ( SOT23-5    A63A  ) i google it and its a LM321
Low Power Single Op Amp . i dont have it but i can wire with deferent model  ( LM393  or LM358  ) what to use ?

hadir om

@21:04 The equation you show is not technically correct.  A, as in Av, is typically used to represent gain.  Applying the "v" subscript implies voltage gain.  Either way A is dimensionless.  You multiplied -(Rf/Rin) by Vin, which will result in a voltage with a dimension of "V".  Your equation should either read Av=-(Rf/Rin) or Vout=-(Rf/Rin)*Vin.

GOOD MORNING SIR WHAT'S GBP PL ECPLAIN SND GIVE DETSILS AND LINK TO BUY SIGNAL GENERATOR OSCILLOSCOPE AND BENCH POWER SUPPLY TO BUILD MY IWN ELECTRONICS LAB FOR AC DC EXPERIMENT BOTH .

Radio Shack charges 8 dollars each.

hi! i see there's a distinction between dual and single power supplies, but does this actually matter? because an OPamp can be used between GND and +VCC, -VCC and +VCC, or even -VCC and GND. do OP amps actually care what they receive? because there really isn't a difference between say, -9v +9v, and 0v +18v. the NE5532 doesn't even have a GND pin listed (so i don't think it cares whether its single or dual), and the LM358 specifically says in the datasheet "Negative (lowest) supply or GND for single supply operation"

edit: nvm. i found out there is a difference. whilst they're very similar (and generally interchangeable), dual supply OP amps guarantee that the differences in behaviour will be more consistent whether positive or negative whilst single supply does not. perfect OP amps do not exist, so dual and single supply ones exist to compensate for that.

At 4:56 you stated, "...and so our output will go negative. Again, the amplitude of the output will depend on the amount of difference between the two inputs".

Um.  I do not think that's true because, when you stated this in the video, there was no feedback to the inverting input so any difference between the inputs would cause the output to go all the way to saturation (high/+VCC or low/-VCC).  

Am I misunderstanding what you were trying to say?

YOu berttte r stratddle that chip with that capascator or I am gonna flip tfout

How does that power supply splitter actually work? Looks magical to me :)

An opamp with infinite bandwidth would be useless in a lot of applications, if not most, due to Johnson noise another other considerations.

12:14 - Popular Op-Amps. What about the good old LM741 op-amp ?

Hello Sir, I followed this video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MG1-kYFCkqI   and made the project. However I am getting a lot of noise directly from the esp32. I verified this by getting rid of the lm386 and directly plugging the speaker to esp32. No matter what voltages(3.3v, 5v) I try or power sources( i.e. usb, 12v dc) I couldn't get rid of the noise. Could you please help me out. I know that this is an op-amp video and asking about audio here, but I just needed you to communicate with me. Thanks...

Usm experience DIGITAL electronics

Pl show pinout in your animation sir you are onestip solution for beginners pl start from electrical then active and passive component electrical basic for Indian especially student and then step by step approach to microcontroller beforethat opamp, digital electronics,then microcontrollers and then aurduino servo esp with study material in description.frin wheretobut oscilloscope and function generator dcpiwersupply.

40:49 can you, please, explain about shorting an oscope?

iss lispl niss

Your graphics were very nice, but you went way too fast for some reason.  I am almost 100% sure, in your normal daily life, you don't speak as fast as you did on this useful video.  In a presentation this long with so much material covered, you would expect a variety of questions , which some you could have anticipated and answered during your presentation.

What I found strange however was you showed equipment hooked up but you never stopped and spent a few seconds how you hooked them up that particular way. Since polarities are crucial, you could have focused a few seconds talking about it during your showing thiese lab set up.  The wiring from your scope could have been presented a little neater instead of having a clump of wires coming in front of the scope.

I would think about redoing this video incorporating as many of the suggestions as I have briefly highlighted above.  Your audience will benefit from this process.  After all you did this to really teach listeners this useful information.

Good luck.
,

Pl giveyour email id and introduce yourself in each video.true mentor the way unexpected.

It's creating a virtual ground by regulating it's voltage level exactly into the middle in between the two power rail voltage levels.

"It's pretty simple"...

It was popular decades ago. I can't imagine using it in new design. There are many, many amps that are much better for similar or lower cost.

tabletop oscilloscopes are not floating instruments so doing a standard probe measurement in the middle of a circuit that is also not floating is creating a direct path to the ground potential thus closing the current loop in a short circuit.
That's the reason why most handheld multimeters and power supplies are floating devices, why differential probes are needed when measuring inside power supplies and why repurposing a desktop computer PSU as a lab bench supply (a sadly popular topic on YT) is generally not a wise idea.

 @PainterVierax  wouldn't some few MOhm resistors stove the problem?

I feel there is something of an elephant in the room(or im just too stupid for electronics) how do we get said "bipolar power supply" for the op-amp. Are we suppose to make some sort of H-Bridge connected to square wave or something or how do we add it?

I like your video but your definition of offset voltage is not correct IMHO. (See 11:20)

The schematic for the non-inverting amplifier at 22:53 looks wrong. It seems you forgot to swap +/- on the schematic.

not working.... output is similar to half diode rectifier...bottom halves of sine wave, missing...   am using LM 358.... with one 9v batt....sig generator outputs sine wave at about 50 mv ac sine, rms, good signal... on scope...but  output from LM 358 goes gaga.... so much for single supply... huh.... is there no OP AMP in this world that works, with one battery, and input can be from a mic, radio, etc...,,, 21st century,,,

Well I started building the unity gain buffer circuit (step-by-step with your video) and got as far as the batteries to op-amp hookups, but I wasn't sure how to hook up the signal to test it. As a relative beginner trying to learn by experimenting, it would have been useful if you had taken an extra moment to show/explain how you set up the input signal. I had a general idea that I would feed the positive signal from the signal generator to the pin 3 input, but I wasn't sure from there and I didn't want to blow something up (especially my oscilloscope when testing) so that's as far as I got. I didn't bother watching the following op-amp setups as I suspect you assumed most people watching this video had the background knowledge to fill in the gaps. I understand it may seem trivial to those with more experience, but I think it would have been useful to at least mention how you hooked up the signal, and then even set up the test on oscope, at least in the first setup. Those little details would have been helpful for someone like myself. Otherwise, I really like the style of your videos. But for now I will have to search for another video so I can try an experiment. Thanks.

Mr work shop thank you for sharing your knowledge..I am from Jamaica and I found a sudden interest in electronics engineering since September last year. I am will to accept all the help I can get.. again thank you and many blessings to everyone on your channel

Ok, you lost me on this one... I'll have to back up a little bit.

Uhhhhhhh analog circuits have the bad habit of picking up noise... I recall when I was a student at the university: we had a list of experiments to be carried out and the first one was to make a 741 opamp using discrete components: it never worked but was a rather fine oscillator, thanks to the mess of wires  that were needed to connect the components!! 
It was 1975 !!!

op amps are super cheap. i own 100 dual op amps, which i got for 4c each lol

Try beatboxing

Just an FYI, your thyroid looks swollen, maybe you should have a doctor check it out.

When explaining something - relate it or use it. Don't just talk about it. You mimic standard descriptions which were never clear and lose the interest of the audience/students(me).  More people learn and understand practical use. So, as I suggested above, put it into something or design something with it and describe its need, purpose, and advantage.  I stopped at 5 minutes.  Other very popular YouTubers DIY and make this logically interesting.

This is extremely helpful, thanks for your effort.

Only partway through but it’s excellent so far as usual. I would like to offer a few corrections from my hobbyist experience building guitar effect pedals:

1. Op amps like NE5532, TL072, etc, do not require dual power supplies — they are commonly used in 9V single-supply designs. When used with single supply, however, they need a bias voltage (usually Vcc/2) so that an ac signal can swing positive and negative, and then need to be ac-coupled (typically with 100n-220n film caps) as a result of the bias voltage. 

LM358 and LM324 are special “single supply” op amps because their output voltage can swing all the way to the negative rail — like half of a rail to rail op amp. That means when powered by a single supply, they can handle input and output voltages all the way down to ground (positive voltages are still limited to around Vcc-2).

2. For an inverting op amp, the effective input impedance becomes R(in) — so by using 1K resistors for an inverting op amp, you’re basically wasting the lovely high impedance of the op amp. (IIRC this happens because R(in) winds up in parallel with the op amp’s inherent input impedance, but don’t hold me to that.)

In my experience, you typically see resistor values of 10k-100k for inverting op amps, and even then they are often preceded by an emitter follower or non-inverting buffer to improve the input impedance.

3. The slope of a one-pole filter is -6dB/Oct (not -3dB).

Productivity never happens by chance; it is always the result of careful preparation, dedication, and consistency. I thank God for my advisor, Mr Yuval Eric Brokman; with his assistance, I am now financially solid, earning between $10,000 and $25,000 every week.

I always wanted to make a remote rocket/fireworks igniter using a laser to trigger a powered relay to energize an electric match.

While i use the same circuit with lm324 its not working as intended, could you help me please

All I need to do is use my 8 pin op amp to increase a reference voltage by 5 times. The range is 0.5 volts to 1 volt and I need it to be 2.5 volts to 5 volts coming 9ut if the opamp. Can you help me? I bought some op amps.

Hi Bill, 
If you want to program about 6 servo's, 6 led's, and a prerecorded comedy sketch with an opening theme song and script for each character (about 2 or 3) into one program with the start of a button, how do you do this? Do I use multiple nano's? If so how? Or, is it possible to make several things happen in one sketch on one Arduino? I'm trying to make a 3-5 min. comedy sketch using servos to connect to handmade figurines, led's to turn on and off when I want them to, and sound. Sorta like a small chuck e cheese band in a picture frame or shadow box. How do I make all three happen at once? Im having trouble figuring out how to go about making all three things happen at once. Lights, sound, and motion. Thank you, Bill, and thank you for all your videos.

Take me off your mailing list. I do not appreciate being threatened by your group. I have asked this before. If you continue to harass me by email I will start litigation against you personally.

use a dual power supply  withe V+  V- and Ground

The offset voltage is measured at the input. Assuming no feedback, your statement is off about a factor of 100,000 :-)

It’s right, it is much more common to draw it with the input on top and the resistors on bottom, but then the +/- would also be swapped to make it look how you expect. It is the same circuit though, just drawn differently

So you watched a portion of a video. Then didn't watch anything more.

Given he explained the circuit schematic of the unity buffer gain op-amp in the first 10 minutes of the video, you may want to try again.

digital circuits also pick up a LOT of noise

The first axiom of analog design is that amplifiers oscillate and oscillators amplify.
Layout in analog circuitry can range from important to very critical. Everything is full of "parasitics" - inductance in wire, capacitance between nodes, small resistances, etc. If your amp was putting out a frequency related to AC mains it was probably noise pickup. At any other frequency it would have been truly oscillating. 

Solderless breadboards are terrible for analog circuits at anything but quite low frequencies. 

"Frequency compensation" to control the gain and phase relationships is generally necessary and often far from simple to optimize. If you look at the internal circuit of a 741 you will find a frequency compensation capacitor in the intermediate stage. Most modern op amps are internally compensated and are stable down to unity gain. A few are "partially" compensated and may be unstable at low gain (e.g. less than 5).

This kind of format is not for everyone, but it's very appreciated for those who just want the accurate description with none of those DIY explanations that may mislead from the real concept behind...

All good comments, but a reply to your point 3. -3dB is the voltage roll off, which Bill likely was talking about. -6dB is the power roll off (power is proportional to voltage squared). 😊

 @MarkSJBeard  peddlereffects is correct. The voltage roll off of a first order low pass filter is 6dB per octave (=20dB per decade). You have the power & voltage terms transposed. A 3dB loss in power equals half power. A 6dB loss in voltage equals half voltage.

Edit: Yuval Brokman helped me train my raccoons for my street clown show. As you know he is an expert in clown-ology. I had to become a clown because Yuval Brokman charged such fees that it left me destitute. You all can find me most days in front of St Louis Cathedral at Jefferson Park, New Orleans performing as I pay the godfather, Yuval Brokman, his pound of flesh.


So so true. When I'm about to start writing code for my ultra specific professional niche, it takes about a day to set everything up: research, organizing notes, getting applications configured and correctly laid out on my monitors for optimum flow, etc. the actual work might take a few hours for a specific block of a long term project. It's all about the prep work. I'm a hobbyist "EE", but am motivated. One key thing I'm trying to get the hang of is using the data sheets as a precursor step that drives what I do next. It's daunting but I know from experience of being an engineer that there is a pattern/trick/process I just need to grasp and it will help. Engineers tend to design things to help make it easier the next time once you get it.

​ @FreejackVesa  I like this creative troll😅

google his name<>

Yuval Eric Brokman.

search his full name,

you will find his webpage.

thanks for sharing,found him on the internet.

How do I begin investing in the markets? I had previously read about Yuval Eric Brokman. I am a complete newcomer to this.

You are based

