This does NOT have 1000 meters range. This is useful over 1 to 5 meters, that's all. CLICKBAIT.

One kilometer range? Good luck with that. 

When I was a kid, I built a similar circuit that would switch a relay on when the beam was interrupted, and off again when interrupted a second time. I placed this across my bedroom door so when I entered my bedroom, the lights automatically came on, and when I left, the lights would shut off. It didn't take long for my sisters to realize they could place their hand through the beam then run away leaving me in the dark.

years ago, I applied this for the security of a large area, I circulated the laser in the desired routes through small mirrors.

One of the best circuits! It can save ones life! Thank you very kindly Anurag. I have crime constantly where I live

Пять с половиной минут смотрели как надо паять.  Гениально. Наверное целый год думали над этой схемой!

Cool - nur das einzige Problem aktuell ist, das es kaum noch Läden für diese Bauteile gibt..

Highlight of the video @4:20 no annoying music.

How long do you think this LDR will last with the laser beam falling on it's surface constantly???🤔

Классный датчик  периметра можно соорудить.

Sending heat like a security fence would be good too.

preferably join a bistable flip-flop/multivibrator. so that the sound continues when the light is once blocked

I'm kindly asking for a drawing of the circuit

Personally I feel that very high precision is required to fix laser on LDR,and highly qualified,(usually uneducated)people who do such kind of things can easily break through.

Music will not give any positive result.explane details.

बहुत बढ़िया

Ist great! thanks, input voltage? is 5v? and power for the lazer?  the bat is 1,5v or 3.7v too

These build types (no perfboard, just component to component) always amaze me, and I have respect for the folk that show this. I do notice that their soldering irons are always in bad shape. I mean terrible. But I am impressed with the rest of it. Notice sometimes they cut away and have added solder. Not surprising.

Looking at the thumbnail,the LDR  emmits sounds.

موبائل کے لیے مائک بنانے کا طریقہ ویڈیو ریکارڈنگ کے لیے ❤

То что надо.  Спасибо.

4 -5 meters range is OK. Why do you need 1000 meters range? 😅

At least it worked its up to you people on how youll improve the idea

 @hansolo1615  did it work?   he only showed one instance. 
Did he present it as a prrof of concept?
Did he present it as a working prototype?
NO he did not
He claimed a 1KM range
It is NOT up to us to develop his IDEA

200 mts vai de boa com um laser bom 😂😂😂😂 agora 1 km ou mais é  fake news 😂😂😂

Depends on laser beam power

The maker of this circuit should give the particulars about the lasers to be used.

 @ShivaShankar-rj4rg  He was asked but he refused to say

Esse aí não pega 1 mt 😂😂😂😂😂

What kind of power are we talking about to reach 1000m or even 100m

Промодулировать лазер звуковой частотой, а в приёмник  добавить предусилитель и частотный фильтр. Дальность работы существенно увеличится. А так это игрушка для начинающих.

How many watching this video are going to use it for 1 km?

However, It's just a demo version which may cover 1 square feet that doesn't matter though at all. Anyway, it's good though for security purposes with home made laser light services. Without doubt, it's definitely Praise worthy Good Job 👍. Of course, this person at least deserves appreciation for his invention by making this type of home made security gadget. Love from Bangladesh. Cheers!

 @thebillet-doux  It is NOT an invention at all.  I remember seeing the same thing in the PE magazine over 30 years ago.

 @thebillet-doux  
 ....Anyway, it's good though for security purposes with home made laser light services.

Rather unclear what you mean. Do you mean it is suitable for home use??
How do you KNOW that? There was only a very brief and limited demo at a very short distance - not even wider than a doorway, 
Was current consumption included? High current consumption would make it impractical.
What of the effect of ambient light?
There were NO specs on the so-called laser and LDR so how to replicate?
What conditions would affect operation?

 @thebillet-doux   Is it ethical to claim a 1KM range but only demo it at 1/2 M
I think NOT

Show it how you do it then!!!

Gündüz işe yaramaz lazer gündüz güneş ışığında kırılır

Si .
Pero el prototipo de la revista ese si tenía un alcance de casi 10 m...😊

Build 1 that has 1000meters range and upload it instead  of giving opinion..that would be better..

Y el botón de apagado también tiene sensor o soy yo q veo mal. Porq se apaga antes de oprimir el botón.

You have to focus your laser.

If you want to extend its distance then you can use optical fiber cables as per your need…

 @ucvinhnguyen8745  y

Buddy, plz dont write comments like this before using your brain! You're just embarrassing yourself...what it meant is, the distance is dependent on the laser that will be used. There are many lasers out there tht can shine straight beams for long distance.

Really good fun. We enjoy.

You try this and it works?

Can you make a video on it or send a circuit diagram

What naughty girls, playing pranks on their inventor brother... Home sweet home.

Скажите спасибо людям.. Можете лучше - покажите. Дерьмо оставте при себе... Весной пригодится.

скорее как не надо паять , так как паять он не умеет от слова совсем , даже учитывая видеомонтаж он не напаял , а насрал.

Не нравится, не ешь.

Кому не нравится тому пусть повылазит. Есть что то лучшее? Огласите пжалста.

ещё больше прикололся , на 1 км дальность  мощнейшего лУзера.🤣 отстой лузер.

Fake video?? 😂😂

Unless you just bought the soldering iron five minutes ago

Bravo fery fery good

Mạch báo động của bạn rất tốt

Good. It is better to introduce the components.

Verry nice

Amigo sirve para sirena de 12v ?

C'est plus que parfait.❤

Nice

خلاقیت خوب ❤

It is available ready made to use directly in ac input supply..?

You might could use a phototransistor to replace both the LDR and the SCR.

just light the light sensor when passing by then you will be saved.

Thanks the tutorial usefull and easy to follow

Où peut-on commander des composants électroniques a des prix normaux merci

Wouais.svp laisser en + les adresses marchands électroniques composant et tout les valeurs resit condo et autres pour réaliser  ..ont est pas forcément des pro  merci

like. solo centraljava indonesia

Problem :The reset button is not working, when the light is blocked the buzzer beeps and when the object passes away it resets on its own without the use of the reset button

Maybe it's good for mice.

Why does the buzzer not get quiet when the laser hits the LDR sensor? It only makes the buzzes a little quieter

До 5метров и это хорошо. Свыше как я понимаю нужна оптика, центровка. Благодарю!

What's the Buzzer model? Is it active or passive? What's the operating voltage? plz mention.

a photo diode and a photo transistor will work

 @reyznbran9586  they dont latch like thyristors

C106MG is a thyristor ( = SCR ), not a transistor. Working in direct current, it latches in the ON position until the current  is interrupted. An electromagnetic buzzer indeed would interrupt the current at every oscillation. The buzzer used in the video is an electronic one and it absorbs current continuously, thus it remains ON until the reset button is pressed .

1.5v

Nota 10 👍🏻

Muy buen proyecto ,  éxitos

V/nice, useful project. Thks

Very good.
Moving good

Mạch này làm báo động rất tuyệt vời rất hay hữu ích

Ótimo trabalho 👏 sucesso aí irmão 🤜🤛

you have to use 2 of them with an AND gate. Other vise insects will ring the alarm. But using a PIR is easier.

Тут важна скорость срабатывания на быстродвижущийся объект. Сомневаюсь что схема сработает на быстропромелькнувший предмет

Nice project 👍👍👍👍 good

Напругу треба зробити від блока зап. від батарейки не вигідно, краще на акумуляторі ,як лазер так і апарат приймача.

Thanks❤

con SCR106M em có thể thay thế bằng con nào khác được ạ anh.

❤❤🎉🎉🎉 good project

Excelente trabajo.

Great job

Bhi dusra trangistor use kar sakte ha kiy

nice project

traffipax detector will be? thx

Good video bro plsmake another video on how to make DC buzzer convert AC tq boss.

Please tell me name of this beat in your next video

excellent, great video !

You are Welcome.... Thanks for watching our videos!

Thanks dear

Thank you so much....

excellent video, awesome !

I was thinking the same but I think we can use a PIR sensor to trigger the secondary laser circuit and then maybe setup some fuzzy logic to monitor the dwell of the PIR and laser to accurately eliminate false alarms.

Эта скорость похоже зависит от ёмкости электролита

Thank you very much

You're welcome 😊

Thanks

Thank you....

Thanks

Ok. Thanks

Is there something else I could use instead a C106MG Scr

То что нужно! 👍

My buzzer is in ON state when light is off and is is going to Off state when light comes back. My SCR is working like a transitor not working correctly.

Please where did he connect the red and black wire to bcoz he don't show the camera there

nice👍

Instead of a on/off switch button, is it possible to put a timer (like 30 seconds) ?

Recomiendas algún proveedor de los componentes electrónicos?

No flux? No rosin-core solder? ALL cold joints. What a Rube!

Very cool,!

THe silicon contro rectifier,      what is the  A and V ? 2/ The resister watt1/4 or 1/2  3/ the ldr sense  K?

Gostei  muito legal

Hello sir i want one help for this video detail

👏👏👏👍👍💡thank you .

What did you do that 2 wires

Thank you master

Nice video
Thanks for sharing
P.S.
Adding some details about the circuit for the beginners will be great 
👍❤

hola, 
buenas tardes, noches, días.
que voltaje utiliza el circuito???.
P.S. - En el vídeo debería decir el voltaje de entrada, nada más te faltó eso.
gracias.

Great

Day time how can work..

How much input voltage?.

Thanks 😊

Thanks

use a capacitor in series with the buzzer. 100 k resistor parallel to the capacitor. then after 1 minute sound will die. again after little time it is ready to detect. change the values until you are happy.

Yes

I'm big of LOL

I buy Electronic Components from RoboComp.in.... You can buy Components from RoboComp.in

It wouldn’t solder without flux. Of course he’s using flux.

Thank you so much... and Thanks for watching my videos.

thanks for reply on my question

Thank you so much.....

Fís como alarme em  redor da casa  com epello ficou muito bom  e botei ligado no amplificador  de áudio

Welcome and Thanks for Watching my videos....😊

more of a toy than a serious project
 - very limited demo with no measurements whatsoever
-  no specs for the laser module
-  no suggestions on alignment
- - construction is really terrible
 - - the SCR used is way overkill
 -  LDR by itself is  a poor choice as it is affected by ambient light-

​ @kennmossman8701 bruhhh... seriously? 🤷‍♂️

Most welcome and Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

nice video

Concordo. Isso q eu ia perguntar.

Thanks

Which laser module is compatible with the circuit ?

Sir. what LDR are you using? 5506, 5516, or what?

How can we make for ac light

1km? It depends the power of laser or external light

is work 100meter fence?

Так он через километр будет рассеянный до толщины пальца, там как минимум нужна собирательная линза

What voltage was the power source?

VOLTAGE KITNA DENA HOGA AC YA DC

Height of the object matters a lot here. If someone jumps over or under the laser line, it may not detect. Multiple laser beams at various levels would possibly help.

Bro is there any alternative transistor there to replace this C106MG SCR. If yes please share the transistor number and it's connection. Please bro need this.

Please send me the document of this project

on the left side of the circuit (input side) , what have you used as input? does 9 V battery works?

How would you make this so that the alarm times out after 3 seconds and resets the alarm on its own?

1 km lazer will probably burn out the thief, you don't need the alarm actually 😂

Is it the same laser module as the one found in dvd head and can we use it in this project? And let me know how much volts should I supply the laser module.

What if any particular object passes in just a fraction of second.

Wow thats a nice idea.. but considering the insect and bugs that interupt the laser.. you will never have a night sleep. And in 1km distance the pointer of your laser will be the size of umbrella.😂 garage park assist is better than security bro.

Hahaha!
I am an hobby electronic person. Now I am 70+ and recently found that my hands shake while doing soldering. However after watching this video, which I suppose must be created by an young person, I feel I am not that bad.
Thanks.

Pleasedraw brief circuit

Is it possible to make a laser security buzzer? For example, if someone enters the room it makes  a buzz, just enough sound to alert you.

А зачем тебе луч с иголку ? Или ты бацилы будешь контролировать ?

Good question, amongst many other ananswered questions !!!

USB or 5V

Mirrors

Ufff... 🙄🤷‍♂️

Usar Laser y sensor IR...
Use Laser and IR sensor...

bt151

If you are using 5 volt Buzzer then you should use 5 volt power supply.

What you mean 1 KM Range ?

Is it possible to use an infrared led and photo transistor?

If you want to use 9 volt battery then you have to used 12v Buzzer.

 @anuragprojects  okay thank you

4 of these would secure a perimeter and tell which fence has been crossed based on which direction you hear it coming from. Perfect.

Right Bro...😊

😂

😂 Exactly

😂

Yas bro 😂😂😂

Google

the ojbect is transported to another dimension

Thanks for the tips! Bro

Wow, this author (of video, sure), speaks and understandss da perfekt inglees. ;))). 
However, seriously, shaking while soldering, is not only you... So, you are not alone... me too...

Hint: try to support your hand on something while soldering!.

 @arnbon6241  Thanks for your suggestion.

place your hand  in a comfortable position where it is steadied    position the joint to be soldered  in easy 'reach'

Your range is 1 km, I made range 10 km. Same components.

 @mohdnaur2418   mine was 100KM           LMAO

Urm, which video did you watch ?

 @MW-us3sv  same video, where you replied to my comment “(How to make laser security (Theft£ Alarm using SCR - 1KM Range)”

Цей зумер треба під,єднати до ПНЧ до входу і буде вам проблема на вуха!😂😂😂 Обов,ЯЗКОВО скористаюся цим апаратом, тепер злодіїв я напугаю тільки.

Long story short, you are describing exactly the same device as presented in the video.

No it's not, it is because once the laser beam is interrupted, it constantly start buzzing till you press the reset button. And this is not how wanted.
I want something like, it should make a buzz for second or two and then stop automatically...

Nice 👍🏼👍🏼👍🏼👍🏼🤩

Thanks!

Nice video, thanks :)

Good job...nice demo

Great great! Thank you a lot.

very nice thank you ....100/100🍉🍒🍑

Wow galing

GOOD

Belo vídeo 👍 Obrigado.

Nice info🙏 5:31

Ingenierio disculpe,me podría indicar los colores de las bandas de la resistencia y de cuántos watts ? con cuántos voltios se alimenta el circuito ? de cuántos voltios es la batería para el láser ?

Sir you are a expert in this field I have a question for you

Thank You 👍👍👍

This is nice can i have a diagram of this please

Excelente vídeo,  gracias por la  información,  cómo le podemos dar uso práctico en el hogar a este circuito?

Sir 3 km range wala FM transmitter making project chahie,,, plz 🙏🙏🙏🙏

Do you have any street camera  detector and speed camera detector circuit diagram

Great video
Like it
Keep up the good work

itu dayanya berapa volt y kak?

pl show name of item used with power or strenght of each item, it will help for children to enhance there knowledge REALLY A GOOD WORK, THANKS

Thank you 👍

Most welcome and Thanks for your support 😊

Thanks

Thanks!

You are welcome!

Most welcome 😊

Thanks

Thanks and welcome 😊

Thanks

Et wouis ça m’intéresse mais avec le complet infos  sinon c’est juste vidéo inutile

Yes, please ask.

 @anuragprojects  firstly what a fantastic vid well done sir 👍🏻 I’m currently working on a drone project are you familiar with radio signals?

Welcome 👍

https://drive.google.com/file/d/111rZvLXM_vsvD2aQnLKT1fnGCSuetjEj/view?usp=share_link

Thank you so much....and Welcome....

Olá. Vou colocar esse projeto numa plaquinha e instalar uns 4 alarmes desse com bateria de moto na casa toda. Mesmo se os bandidos cortarem a energia, a bateria vai segurar. Mas vou usar 12 volts nesse circuito por isso vou analisar os componentes com mais resistência. 👍🇧🇷

Ok, I will try.... Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

google

Thanks

The name of components and Circuit Diagram are link in the description.
Most Welcome and Thanks for watching my Videos.

It doesn’t buzz continuously as shown in video

Ldr will damage by lazer beam.

What is the voltage of laser module.. is it 3v or 5v😊

applied voltage are missing.

Can you make arc or plasma lighter for killing millipedes insects

ESCARGENCY RESEARCH TEMPUS OMNIUS REVELATHE

12v ka bugger laganahi

Power source not indicated on screen.

How many volt we use as input voltage for scheme?

What is the maximum distance between the  LDR sencer and 
Laser module ?

Ada cicak lewat gimana?

Tegangan berapa Volt ??

Can we use c540mgscr instead of c106mg scr?

What is the operating voltage of the ckt and laser module

Current kitne volt diya ldr me

Primery school project.

Hello if I don't put the buzzer can I use the 5 volt out to send this command to activate a contactor to activate a external siren?

What is the input voltage to circuit?

1km? Of course!  By using a 1km laser.

❤❤❤❤ is bar is project ko bade aakar se banana bhai taki ghar ke kam Aaye

You can give Voltage 3v to 5v. Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

3.7 id say

5v for receiver circuit and 3.7v for Laser Light. Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

1 to 5 meters.

I have a 5 watt laser with adjustable focus that probably would work at one (or two) km. Problem is, it tends to set things on fire... 😁

Depends on which laser light you are using and How far can the laser beam travel? Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

No

Hi, Circuit 5V and Laser module 3.7V. Thanks for watching

5v ka buzzer use kiya to 5v circuit me digiye. Agar 12v ka buzzer use kiya to circuit me 9v ya 12v digiye... Thanks for watching my videos!

You can use these two points to actuate anything but through a relay contact.These two points will energize a relay, the relay contacts can further run/actuate anything.Thanks from Pakistan.

Appears to be 3.7 volt

5v for Circuit and 3.7v for Laser Light. Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

Ok bro, Thanks

This good video Ilike it

Very good excellent really very useful.

Can i use 100uf 16 v capacitor instead of 100uf 10 v

Good bro

Hello anybody at home LDR is a day night sensor

Can it works in the night  ?

Not complete demo... What is the voltage in the input???😢

Sir ye ldr kitny ka mlta hi sir

You are so brilliant, you just invented the light barrier.

How much voltage you apply across switch and buzzer

What's the purpose of laser?

Will a 4v battery work?

can c106mg scr be replaced with other components sir

What's the power source. U didn't mention.

This project is not only 1km i guess 😅

Can we use LED instead of laser

why the capacitor?

Why don't Use Laser and IR sensor?

A simple circuit diagram would be far more useful.

Good

Thank you very much 😊

Thank you so much…..

Yes, you can use. Thanks for watching 😊

Thanks dear

you need a night light laser

If you are using 5V Buzzer in circuit. So you give 5V in the input.... or If you are using 12V Buzzer in circuit. So you give 12V in the input. Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

Thank you very much 😊

YES  next he will invent time travel, fusion reactors, and  Beedis

5V

to burn out ur eyes

Yes

No

the quatum modifier from The Daleks   will work

I use 5v adaptor. You can use any 5v power supply. Thanks for watching 😊

right   also 10KM       wait   also 100KM        wait it can go  1,000 KM        NO WAIT   to the moon and back!

Yes

Because his security technology is not up to par,

It’s more about striving for the flow of oil pipes rather than actual security knowledge.

Yes, you are right

Thanks

Bisa beli dimana bos

How to give 5 volt current

😀😀

I got 2 lazers for free from a christmas light and want to do this? How do i match components? Im still very slow to understand this.

Jarak nya brp mter

1KM!!! :P

Any website for purchase this electronic components

It's cheaper if you buy it already assembled (from china) $$$$

What r u using 0.45 sec

Ldr not eficience light.

Ya ,bisa 1 km , jika dapat fokuskan laser pada target.,tapi pada malam hari/gelap jalur sinar laser terlihat merah .

Pleasedraw circuit

Total expenses??

One kilometer? 10 meters most probably.

Battery kitne volt ka h ?

Auto metik Banna thainajai

كيف يمكن أن تثبت شعاع ليزر صغير على مقاومة ضوءية لمسافة كيلومتر. 😂😂😂😂😂😂

Sir saan tayo makabili ng parts at saka schematic diagram

Hello, what brand do you have your welded iron, it is very good, can you give us the address for when we can buy this welded iron, thank you😘

what does this 1Km mean....some one please tell me.

What country are you from? If you are from India, you can buy components form robocomp.in. Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

use the Dalek fusion reactor

best to use The Daleks   lasers

Hi, I always purchase electronic components from Robocomp.in, so you can also purchase from www.robocomp.in

I used Copper wire... Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

IF...IF....IF....IF my dog  crapped gold I would br rich
you missed a few other factors

5v

Треба включити лазер, направити туди де буде закріплена апаратура приймача, на ночь включати, а утром виключати. Якщо не має доброї собаки!

 @valeriyvaleriy1671  nice one 😁

I buy Electronic Components from RoboComp.in.... This is a trusted Company in India. You can buy Components from RoboComp.in and Circuit Diagram link in the discription....Thank you for Watchnig my videos...

I use soldron and pulsivo soldring iron. Buy from www.robocomp.in......Thanks for watching 😊

 @anuragprojects  thank you lot's😘

it is how much iy weighs   Kilo Metric tons

Why not use a 10 kilowatt welding arc instead HAHAHA...........

It can have 1000m range of the light is that strong 😊

What happens when a bird flies into the laser beam? False alarm!!

Birds interfere with the alarm during the day.

You did not say how the laser beam can travel 1 km.  The video is deceptive.

Ye battery kon si hai ❔❔❔❔❔

What is this saund you maek this saund or what

You should not bend the leads in that fashion. Didn't you learn that?

Denken Sie so etwas easy.................? Wie ist Extras Situation denken...................? Ich will es Wissen, wie die Börse am Tiefsten Pünkt ging....

1 km???

How many volt is battery of

💕💕❤❤💘💘

Try to improve thumbnail

1km  of dreaming hahaaaha

1000m range?. I cant believe.

Ищу схемы ликвидатора, не временного подавителя, элементов дистанционной прослушки в диапазоне до 450Мгц(можно и выше). Именно ликвидатора, чтобы включил, и  все, жучок вышел из строя. Вроде тетрафаста, но надежнее и бесшумно. Лучше еслиимпуль ликвидатора вызовет спонтанный разряд источника питания в схему и выход из строя хоть одного элемента, чтобы в результате закладкаперестала работать полностью. Буду благодарен.

Nice video 
#techgyanbiswajit

You need to remove the K... More like 1 meter Range... BTW You've only shown a 10 inch range...

How much feeding is 3-9-12V?

how many volts you use for the circuit and for the laser module ?

You are right bro...

Hello bro.. there are many laser lights available which have different capabilities depending on their specifications. Now you can use according to your requirement. Thanks for watching my videos.

 @anuragprojects   I know long range laser lights available. your video didn't show that type .  Can laser light be used continuously for 24 hours?  By giving suitable volts and current.  Can you please elaborate on this?

You have to focus your laser

Lithium ion 18650

Laser modul 3.7v, Circuit 5v. Thanks for watching.

Thank you...

Yes!   He did a 2 minute test at a range of 1/2M  so of course it will work at 1000M !!!   LMAO

Thank you so much....

5V for circuit and laser

Bahi kitna volt dena ha😢😢

Make 220vac

1 km...?Did you seriously have tried to set it? 1 km away? How?

1 km????

Ldr will damage

LDR??? 🤔

🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹

Please send me diagram

Boss may pinagbibilo kayo

Boss may pinagbibilo kayo

Electric good

В моду вошли обезьянии сборки , мы собрали по схемам .

This scheme is worth a Nobel Prize, or maybe even two...🙄

Soooppperrr

5 inches range😂

Saan

Transistor real
 name

Mana buktinya bisa detek sampai 1km? Hoax

👍🏻👍🏻👍🏻

Where is the code

5v circuit me and 3.7v laser module me. Thanks for watching 😊

Ok. Thanks

Yes...

Light Dependant Resistor

Light Dependant Resistor

मेरा मतलब था LDR एक किलोमीटर तक कैसे काम कर सकता है?

LDR light intensity ko receive karta hai... Laser light ka beam jitna dur travel karega...utana distance LDR aur Laser light ke bichame hoga.... Thanks for Watching my videos 😊

Thanks bro

Check the description.

THE PRIZE FOR COPYING LOUSY CIRCUITS?

Thank you.....😊

C106MG SCR

Buy from https://robocomp.in/product/c106mg-4a-600v-scr/

Thanks 😊

No code required 😅

👍👍👍👍

Master

OMG ... Silly people. 🤷‍♂️ ( Few of them leaving their silly comments here.) Should I say smart or not so smart people ? 😅
Sorry I'm not from the electrical background. I'm an illiterate in this field but after seeing the comments I feel like... "I can be a rocket scientist" yo 😅 🤩 😂

Bom dia

මේ බඩු ටිකට කීයක් විතර යනවද

max 10 mt

No chance

awesome, :face-blue-smiling:loved this video, 😉 @arduinomaquinas thank you man, subscribed

T K

😂😂😂,
bused

Опять индус на бывает

1 KM  ????  :body-blue-raised-arms::body-blue-raised-arms::body-blue-raised-arms:??????

sorry to say but it wouldn't work for 1km

This circuit applied but ..... Not work?

Nothing I hate worse from new channels is the fancy Nancy intro graphics and loud music.   Way to destroy a viewer before they even have a chance to see your content.  And your soldering needs practice.

Your not talking

KAK!!!

1km range?
it looks like only 7cm, what a joke!!!

🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟>
... COMUNQUE ... c'è soltanto un 
raggio in una sola direzione!
Per fare qualcosa di più ...
♎️☦️♎️ SOFISTICATO ♎️☦️♎️
    ci vogliono una serie di
    💥SPECCHIETTI💥 che
 💥RIFLETTONO💥 il raggio
          💥L A S E R💥...
e devono essere perfettamente 
       🏠 IMMOBILI 🏠 !!!

Contact number of anurag projects

Thanks

Thanks

Thanks you so much

Visit www.robocomp.in for prices

Awesome, thank you!

পাগল।

What's with that lousy irritating background music? Can't you do electronics without that?

Electronic circuits without the respective diagram are no longer of interest to the majority of those interested in projects👎

Cessez les conneries avec quelle source est connecté votre assemblage de composants électroniques  .

Sorry no good no commentary or description.

I hate this kind of BS content that just shows "attach this here, bend this and insert this".  Whether it be electronics, carpentry, cooking or what have you.  I know how to solder, drive a nail, and turn a screw.

more of a toy than a serious project
 - very limited demo with no measurements whatsoever
-  no specs for the laser module
-  no suggestions on alignment
- - construction is really terrible
 - - the SCR used is way overkill
 -  LDR by itself is  a poor choice as it is affected by ambient light- 

Later he defends the crazy claim of a 1 KM range by saying it depends on the laser and focusing - which means HIS  project here is a toy

AND no warning on wearing precuations and safety equipment - - - quite irresponsible

с похмелья чтоли паяет

Zafer Yildiz Copyright video 💐💐💐🌹🌹🌹🏵️🏵️🏵️🌺🌺🌺🌻🌻🌻🌷🌷🌷

Typical BS from pooland, lol.

очередная поибень

কপি করার জন্য তোমাকে আনফলো করে  দিলাম,

Lies

Good video, please click subscribe

Ok, Thanks for Watching 😊

Not really an answer at all.

who would want to copy a third-rate video

Thanks

