Amplifier using TDA2050 : https://youtu.be/2PHGKvOeVWk

Woooooooow bro its amezing thanks 
From 🇪🇹 ethiopia ❤❤❤❤❤❤

Desde Bogotá Colombia, gracias por compartir sus conocimientos, felicitaciones

Wow 😯 thank sir please can you teach me more than this one please I will like to learn God bless More

Excellent friend. Thanks for the electric scheme.

Una toronja😊

Thank you so much ❤❤❤❤

magnifico! buen sonido😊

Thank you very much! Super!

Nuhun mang 👍

Exelente...!!!!

Ok kaayo

A la vez se escucha como amplificador de instrumentos, caería bien para guitarra

Nice

Peligroso  para  el teléfono

❤🎉🎉

In the nineties, lots of trouble happened in the amplifiers, hifi towers. The cause a was the sound recordings from radio to tape. Satellites broke down the cassette decks, to avoid recording from radio.

Éxitos gracias por subir videos.
Caracas Venezuela

Wow bagus sekali

This is great but an enclosed case with solar remote would be good. But people today are lazy and went take the time to do this. But its nice and your smart.

 @homemade_101  Bluetooth amplifier board name 
 listen song on lg xboom lk72b 4 ohm's 20 watt subwoofer?? 
under 250₹​

thank you bro

yep it is good

Thank you too!

welcome

thank you

thank yoy

thnks

TSA2050 AMp : https://youtu.be/2PHGKvOeVWk?si=PDs6DNnnaDQzZWvq

welcome bro

thanks

welcome man:elbowcough::stayhome:

👏👍

А мне понравилось как он питание на кракодильчиках проверял.
😂😂😂😂😂😂

Lebih bagus rakitan ampliter itu ambil dari mesin tp bekas yg udah rusak

I’m in (financial) freedom

Excelente, gracias; maestro..!

Hello there I have 2 tda7296 and 2 tda 7295 I want to bridge two of them for a subwoofer and the other 2 for right and left speakers can you please help me

👍 MUY BUENO PARA ESCUCHAR DESDE EL CELU CON MÁS VOLUMEN

Suaranya pincang mas serak

Terimaksi sodara ku

لمنع التشويش والضجيج تحتاج تركيب مكثفة 16v/470uf بين سلك السالب لادخال التغذية و سلك ادخال الصوت.مع تحيات رشيد من المغرب

Nice video, the 2200 uf x 25 capacitor ends up exploding, what could it be?

El plug se llama PLUG ! NO JACK

А что обычной динамической головки не было? сабвуфер ведь предназначен только для баса

Think  YOU

You have a good technology. But what good is it to us if we just listen to music and see it?Please explain this a bit, what will happen if all these components are installed and not installed, and who is involved in it. Otherwise, don't post the video.

If intention is teach the the person who will see your video, I think it would be better if you explain to them how the ckt.works and teach them how to make their own PCV which is more safer than direct soldering.

How to pair a ic in electronics

Mantap suaranya bersih...👍👍

установите неполярный коденсатор на входе

Interesting. But I’d rather have had tutorial narration while you built it vs background music.

☺

welcome bro

welcome brother

thank you

sorry

welcome

Explain circuit is not easy. But why add a capacitor in series to speaker

thank you

welcome

thank you

YouTube tes kecerdasanku DLAM melihat dalam mengelola data 😁☺️😄😝

UF under frequency ultra high frequency UHF battery 🔋 🪫

le son n'est pas clair, distorsion problem

Nice

Jamais électronique et je veux être plus performant

This is 20 watts rms, enough power to make some nice noise.

🥳🥳🥳🥳🥳🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥

God

Как-то я повторял такие унч , правда я не установил обратный диод что привило как то к замыканию и выхода из строя

Loy and

UTC2030 < 30w , Loa 30W, amply kéo không nổi loa phát âm rè rè. nên chọn loa luôn nhỏ hơn amply chứ không nên chọn loa lớn hơn hoặc bằng.

Is like you connect one resistor in parallel.

اوکی

Siip

Where is heatsink and voltage blocking capacitor ? Those IC are desteoyed without heatsing very son +self oscillation without blocking capacitors. But for asia is good...

Y Como sería si se monta en circuito impreso?❓

Everything is good but sound not too much and it's glitch please make power full sound crystal clear same ic

Hay un error en el ajuste de salida, la conección del capacitor de 1000 mf es erronea, debe ir acoplado al parlante

တကယ်ရောရရဲ့လား

transistor digital adapter 2030

:volcano-green-lava-orange:

welcome

oky

🤔

🤩

thanks

:yougotthis:

thank you

yes

It is good.

:yougotthis:

​ @homemade_101 hey man

Puso parlante de 4 ohms , una fuente de 2 A que es insuficiente, hay un error en la R de la pata 1, y está usando al celular como fuente de sonido mp dorro...mas mal no puede ser

 @torugonza  cual es el error?porq a mi me hace explotar el capacitor de 2200uf x 25v que va al parlante en 4 ohms

When the speaker isn't in the box the sound can't be perfect . However with that been said the sound was pretty decent.

don

Y la R de 100 K de la pata 1 va al (+) y los 33K a pata 1...todo mal😢

yes

??

Pinout?

bisa diterima

TDA 2030

How to make with two speakers. And left right

Itu skema TDA2003.TDA2030 kakinya7

Saya tidak yakin untuk speaker besar,chipset tda cepat sekali panas di semua ukuran speaker😂,,,❤❤❤

mekata aux kabal eka natiwa .bulutut mobam ekak  sat karanna mohamada

Всё на сопелбках

Pode colocar mas de um alto-falantes

Использованная микросхема TDA2030A поддельная, если автор не верит, то может отдать на экспертизу. Звук ужасный.

This IC has been around for more than 30 years. Nothing new about it.

TDA

Please tell me what is the total cost of this project

"Simple"

Lần sau làm kết hợp luôn cái triết áp chỉnh trets nữa add
😊

Ai fini didattici potrebbe lontanamente avere significato questo circuito ma in realtà è totalmente instabile non credo che possa funzionare per lungo tempo E poi il chip è sfruttato davvero male senza una alimentazione duale...... Secondo me questi video fanno più male che bene

Finally built it and thankfully it works but it gets very distorted when i turn the volume up why is that? Some say to increase the power supply will this circuit run 24v?

You have to give at least 25v to get sound from Tda2030 bro.

Replace tda 2030 to tda 2050

Coba Rakit

Yep

ok in will try

:yougotthis:

You can see a big speaker:  https://youtu.be/-KvAabAzEOo?si=8PFNDEO_DMdxxe5W

what 🤔

🤔

Boa noite vou fazer um

:yougotthis:

Es Nuevo e instructivo para los que no sabian

yes

ok

12v only

You found any solution to this? I’m having the same issues. With another circuit I was told to increase 12v to 18v. Have you tried increasing voltage?

:yougotthis:

 @homemade_101  bro gonna wake up the whole city he's livin' XD

Ngawur

​ @Colywus0841 Read the tda2030a datasheet carefully

welcome

se puede conectar un jack hembra para bajo electrico?

Ok dar ce putere scoate? Cati watti? Putere audio nu muzicala!

How can make using tda2030 or tda2050.5+1 home theatre with stereo .. with sub woofer .. with volume.bass..truble control with haigh outputs sounds...show me like this video or send chimeric diagram.. with all details.. please sir ❤

12345 adapter

Muchas gracias. Excelente el proyecto

❤❤❤❤❤      MUITO  OBRIGADO,  MEU  AMIGO,  PELAS  SUAS  INFORMAÇÕES,  TÃO  IMPORTANTE....!   ♥️♥️♥️♥️🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷

the resistor in the video is 33 , and where is it correct in the circuit 100?

I never heard of running the capacitor in parallel with the speaker output. Check the circuitry of that IC transistor unit it may be different

adapter n amplifier

It is working,  but it's  not crystal  clear

Que pasa si coloco un diodo rectificador normal y no uno de 6A?

it is already clipping.

is it 12v single suply or 12-0-12 dual suply

TDA transistor digital adapter

I would love to get to know more about building this kind of things, but where to start? Can somebody guide me to some channels/websites? Where to start this journey? :) peace!

Звучание, конечно не очень.

5wat

Hello. Do we need a heat sink for the IC?

Hii brother can you make a volt and amp adjust Power supply with volt and amp meter connection

How to add 1 more tda i got 2

yes

ya lo hice, funciona pero tengo una interferencia no se que seria, tenes idea?
 @homemade_101 

60W

Dracu 60w

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kmqJ...

Have tried opening this url but doesn't seem to leed me there

Yap it's true it does not exist according to goggles

🤔

welcome bro enjoy

Yea 33k

capacitor is connected in series and not in parallel

Manufacturer suggests 2200uf capacitor at pin 4  in series to speaker to stop dc voltages  to the speaker     it is correct.

 @HunTekhAe  even a 470 mfd also gives good result in bass.

​ @HunTekhAe  كيف نستطيع التخلص من اثر الازيز في السماعه في هذ النوع من الانتيكريت عند تشغيله على المحوله

ربط التوالي يعطي نمطا عاليا في الصوتز

Correct

sometime

burn out sometime.

yep

single

Yes

 @CzwartekSypniewski   yes bro
I know u are concern about the cap at the sp
That is simple
The overlode is consumed by cap

yes neeed

connect parallel

 @homemade_101  how though and parallel to where? Do u have a vid on how to do it

When you build this, your ear listens to many hums and ground loops.
Should be fine with a PCB.

Can this work with a small Bluetooth speaker as well

Good

tank you,i like this

hasil brp watt

👍

Что за чушь миниджек замкнут

Thanks for the illustration now what is the input voltage?

Parabéns gostei muito.

Low gain

Can this be used in stereo?

Will it be OK if I use 24VDC power supply for this circuit instead of 12VDC?

Честно не вижу в этом особого смысла купить готовый и не морочить себе голову а так всё купи тда купи кондеры купи резисторы тоже готовое решение и дешевле и практичней а это так у кого в жопе молодость гуляет

Serve pro tda 2006?

Solar Inverter make 👉https://youtu.be/HKyZp2xCAOU

Great idea.. Really appreciate your work 👌🙏

What is the title of the background music?

How can I send my computer sound to remote stereo amplifier speakers wirelessly?

Request... amplifier Tda 2005 12 vdc

Very bad quality sound but is  amusing

yes somtime

yes

Welcome :chillwcat::stayhome:

welcome bro

400w

Welcome bro

😶

12v dc 5A

Enjoy

yep

yes

make one more set of IC and comps and attach

12v dc

Maybe.

Plz check DTATA sheet

Thank you.

Welcome 😍

Ting ting ting Ning ting ting Ning ting

I don't know check description

It's Shazam

I cant understand ☹

Ok i will try 😊

🤔

What is the price of 2030 ic?

Can I get the b50k instead of the b47k potentiometer please reply soon 0:53

can a 10w shoulder iron perform this good while shouldering?

Diagram boss

Kya bevkuf bna rahe ho

смени музыку

Why do you people always make the circuits in 3D? Where do you see them like this in real life? This is bad practice, breadboards exist for a reason.

Outstanding

sorry but that sounds terrible!!!  thumbs down, and a unsub!  no problem you won't miss me.

How many watts in RMS. Tnk U!👍

Nice

1.5$

20 taka Bangladeshi price..indian price 10-15 rupees

Ok no problem

 @homemade_101   ok thank you

 @sampathrajapaksha2311  yes

yes

have in description

what ??

ok

it is simple way of beginner.

You got a 'schematic' view, everything is on the surface of a page to see.

Welcome:stayhome:

100W

enjoy

