Hey Guys what you are doing?
One thing I should mention that you can connect Flyback Diode with the Motor. It will Protect the MOSFET from Back EMF. And Use a Heat sink for the Transistor. It will Heatup if you use it continuously.  
My Quarantine Time 😁😁
Visit: https://circuitbest.com/dc-motor-speed-control/

tysm it works fantasticly but i did needed to add a heatsink to the mosfet but exept that it works great thanks

Hay man thanks for this but I'm trying to make something on a bigger scale and need this set up for a 300w 25 amp 12v DC motor any help would be awesome

very easy to follow, thanks for the tutorial.

Love the beats in the video 😀

Please make video on (How to make speed dc controler with IC chip)

Apsalutly bloody marvellous, it's amazing how these mothers go, what's the length of time that lipo battery lasted

Hey man thanks a lot and can you make motor speed controller for  100 w motor please

Thankyou it works like charm

used 12N50 mosfet and works

Very good!

Pls give me full consept of these digram. In the discripstion box. Thanks you 😊.

Sounds like a racing car

Can be used for 12v power pack?

Kay is se 6v ka dc motor controll ho ga..?

What transistor can I use instead of Mosfet and what type?

I want to go super slow and low torque. Basically I want an electronic  focuser for my telescope.

Good it is working 💯

Parabéns grande profissional 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻🇧🇷🇧🇷abraço aqui do Brasil 🇧🇷🇧🇷tô aprendendo muito

The last thing I would see is a baked mosfet.

Judul music openingnya apa ka??😍

can i use  this on 24v dc motor or 36v dc motor?

 @arsenioegoytorogiguinat2826  yes you can but use 20k pot instead of 10k and use better heatsink

You are wrong my bro. The current will be limited by the resistance, if you calculate with ohms law only 12ma will flow.

Bro can i use p55 mosfet ?

 @gurjotmaan07  Yes you can

Can i use in car battery

It’s flyback not back emf.

Hi, This is a wonderful video.. Thank you very much. How about using a power adapter for constant supply?

Bhai 10k ki jagah 100k volume le sakte hai ky please reply please 🙏

Bro it can handle how many amp?

@creative creator can it boost 12volts to 24volts..plzz replyyyy

Do you have an update video that adds a flyback diode and heatsink?

How Much Amp can it handle?

 @avezsyder  just look up the maximum amperage rating for the IRFZ44N MOSFET, if you need higher amperage rating you can upgrade the size of your transistor/MOSFET or potentially run more MOSFETs in parallel. I'm not sure about the success of the parallel configuration though (I haven't learned enough yet)..👍

Sir i use 100k but the motor turn it slowly!  explain me.

Ñ

Bro tell me about that battery where u buy

It works with 24v dc ?

How much voltage it can handle? Pls answer

 @psgames-sf3ht  12 to 15 v

PLEASE DON'T TRY THIS. Don't you know that you're connecting the potentiometer 1st and 3 rd pin to the battery? The potentiometer will heat up extensively

He needs to shift

Into second and third

Cool
Edit: it’s an n channel mosfet and this circuit basically controls the voltage at the gate controlling the current the fet will allow. Use the irlz44n and this circuit will not work.

Thank You so much sir very easy and at home things

Lo pegue tal cual y lo puse y se tiró tres el potenciómetro

I love you so much im using this for a year long school project

Hey @creative creater you think a half bridged ac universal motor would run on this too? Assuming a rated mosfet that switches apace

Please use a resistor between the potentiometer and the ouput

فديو رائع.خمس نجوم.نفعتنا.نتمنى لكم النجاحات والتوفيق.

i used a GWT40H65DFB

Vary super fantastic

I have  made it .It was successful.

I try with same the partai, but not working⁉️ Thank you 👍🙏🇮🇩

Can I take zn7805 12-5 volt regulator in the space of first component

LM 317 c'est possible
Merci

Mosfet is used without heat sink. This will be a problem.

Yeah it works, and it caught on fire

Thanks bro you are great

Yeah this is a awesome method and all but I don't know if y'all know this but there are no Radio Shacks in Alabama and I have no access to all these Nifty components being used. I'm looking to rob the parts off of another electronic or used different components from different devices to build a makeshift speed controller can anybody help?

nice but i wish some explanations

like for the boom and sirene lol (definitely creative creator)

Experiment main apka video dekhake kiya.... success hai....pura meterial 70 ka mila

And how many is the voltage IN as a maximun?

Very usefull

Z44n heating problem bro. Solve this

Ola dice un controlador con las mismas piezas electronika u calienta demasiado el transistor mosfe alguna recomendación por favor atte Ángel chinchilla de honduras la ceiba atlantida

What happens on achange of battery connections for motor revedsal?

It works with 100k potentiometer

Yeah I like to see that on an oscilloscope.

Can u hook this up on a car alternator that has been converted into a motor

Is TDA2030 suitable for this project?

how many 12v fans can control with that  hack ?

Alternator motor controler video Makeplz
i am in Tamil Nadu-CHENNAI.

Can use the 9v battery for the 3v motor ?

Boa Noite  esse circuito posso alimentar até 12volt ou posso alimentar com mais de 12volt  ????

what is the working voltage of the motor... ?

Amazing

Sir can we use 100k Potentiometer in place of 10k?  Please tell

Nice!

Working but MOSFET heating a lot

Gracias, Maestro.

Klau buat batre 36v caranya gimana

What is the output watt of this circuit? Can I use it for 775 motor to make a mini kids go kart?

how many current draw can it handle ?

Input dc 35volt with 1A 12-0-12 se ye kam karega?

what is the voltage and wattage ratting of the dc motor? capacitor values? resistor values? and the power supply which is depended on motor rating?

Is this a speed limiter or a current limiter? Adding load will cause it to spin slower, right?

Can i use 3205 transistor instead of irfz44n

But im wanting an 36v 800w controller

Suppose I need it to go MUCH slower ? Like 1/10 RPM ?

can i connected to 12v DC? using computer power supply?

Will tht mosfet gets hot if motor under load?

wath the motor voltage and the batery  thanks good video

works great thanks

can I use this circuit with 12v pc fan ?
and is it compatibe with 12v adaptor ?

Gracias, la verdad si me ayudo, pero me esta pasando que el motfet se esta caletnando mucho, mi fuente de voltaje son 4 pilas conectadas en serie, cada pila da un voltaje de 4.3 vol, que podria hacer para que no se sobre caliente

where do i get the mosfet items? Please let me know. Thanks

It is working 👍

can i use battery more than 1500mah

if power input only 4,2v (i used 18650 batteries), does the circuit work?

Can I use to any motor for alternator too

What is the role of the mosfet?

Can I use to regulate 12v solar panels

nice !

Bro agar may fan ka reguletar use kru to chale ga

Is this possible for 36volt dc motor?

It's ok to add capacitor?

Irf1404 serve?

Hi friend can you show me how to make a railway crossing bell sound by simple  electronics this is for my little grand son thank you

Can I know we can connect  a small dc motor which means 6 v dc motor

👌 SUPER USEFUL VIDEO

Way heet  very  much

GOOD BRAIN

dude can i use a 5k potentiometre eager for your reply

Can i use  it in 12v 4amps battery ???

P55n,irf3205 can use?

Anyone got a proper way of doing this? I tried the setup and while the motor spun, i could not control the speed, any ideas why?

Can i use another batry V?

Its max  8.3v (10k,100k 2tama) how iget 12 v?

Can be used in 17.5 to 20V?

If we use 47 k potentiometer in the place of 10k potentiometer then why the motor doesn't stop rotating in decreasing resistance definitely the motor speed up but in increasing the resistance the motor does not stop properly

Nice video

is it work on 12 volt 95ah battery?

Maine bhi tumhare jaisa circuite bnaya hai lekin Mai usne 12 v de rha hu to 5 volt hi output mil rha hai aur load Dene par MOSFET bahot jyada hit ho rha hai

Hi 
Janb kya main dC motor ho har 15 minutes k bad. Automatically  on off krwa sakta hon 
Yes to plz guide me

👉💚🌏🎋Bro actually I want to make a DC regulator for 5 volt to 30 volt. so now my required in which components. 🌏🎋💚👈so please inform me about it.

Sound like a V10 engine

Fan regulator ki transistor lagana pare ga 🥰 sir 🤗🌹🙏🙏

Very nice bhai

can it be used continuously?

Does it also work at 3.7 V?

👍

He didn't used any resistance why?

What the max load for esc

Thanks

Good

Except for the loud music, I like this video better than most of the others. 

Is it possible and or easy to put a reversing switch on it to reverse the fan direction?
Also putting a thermostat on it to regulate temperature?

And will this work on a 24 volt battery as well as 12 volt battery?

ये कितने घंटे काम कर सकता है लगातार

heting issue kesa thik kare...?

Confusing, because of once the gate of mosfet opened , it will remain opened and the gate has to be closed by inverse signal, how do a binary on and off signals were possible with analog pot

When I heard it, I heard a jet engines!  Sooooo faaaaasssssst

oooh dear you didn't measure output current how much is it ?? this is very important

Is it the same to use on a washing machine motor ?

transistor npn or pnp?

Bhai ise rc car me kaise fit kare

Bhai ji moter ko ulta or sedha chale ki lya kya kare

can i use this for more than 20hours?

Variable voltage control

Ac m jese off hota dimmer ese is m hota h off kiya

2:27 absolutely NOT!

I'm still convinced in India there is no prototype board and everybody only has 9 volt batteries

4 volt kaj hope

Are these hot wires if not what type of wire are they

Yo ya lo hice

Great tutorial. Could you use this setup between a Brushed ESC and a motor as a speed regulator? As in limiting the max speed of your motor output.

Amazon link de please

When I use 5amp fan  it burns the switch

MOSFET over heat hrahe kya kare bhai

Kya long time tak work karega

Mi motor ba lento  porque

Can we use any ic

Why not... From 12 V to 48 V. Not ok under about 8 V. In my mind the IRFZ44N accept about 50 V)

1) Use a radiator on the Mosfet or you will destroy it at half power after few times.
2) Never use more than 15 V on the gate or mosfet destroyed, you can add a resistor on the + of the potentiometer. His value depends on the potentiometer.

No it’s against the law

yep using resistor and probably 555 timer ic would improve efficiency and using even a small heatsink will help the mosfet

 @AitoLaikoSamoMoaCawfy  You are talking about pwm. A 555 with diodes can do it , it is a classical .  I mean changing the on/off ratio , the frequency is not important there. 
Dont forget a free wheel diode on the engine , if no , bye bye the mosfet.
Of course pwm is better.In fact a transistor (or mosfet) must be used 100 % open (low resistance) or closed once you can.
At 50 % ( Imax/2, Rengine=Rmosfet)  it is like a resistor and heat same as the engine. Without a radiator on this little thing , good luck.     

This video is for fun and show what a mosfet under 50 cents can do. It is impressive if you never did it.

Bro this project not working what the reason

Nice

i think that's not working on 8 or above AMP motor

9v battery se kamm karega

It is not working bro
Ic is getting very heat and controller was burned.
I used Xiaomi phone charger as input

सिर्फ 1 एंपियर की मोटर के लिए 775 मोटर 555 मोटर चलाने पर जाट जेड44 खराब हो जाएगा

Heat ho rha h tr bahut jyada

Nice 😜😜🙏

Can i add a switch po?

Osthir

عراقي مر من هنا👊👊👊

Hobby merakit arus dc

no heat sinc , no resistors ,

You IRFZ44N data sheet says Continuous Drain Current:49 A.  Must be a misprint.  No way this IRFZ44N can take 49 Amps.   Also says Power Dissipation:94 W.   Something that small you would need a serious heat sink.  What would the maximum amps be at 12V?  Do you have one on a heat sink?

भाई क्या इससे dc बोल्ट भी। बना सकते हैं।

IRFZ44N  MOSFET

কি কি লাগবে নাম লিখে দেন ।

It is not outputting PWM singal.

Bestever I have seen

How does it work

What is the maximum voltage that can be applied to the input? Will it work in AC or can DC 24 volts be applied to the input?

Mosfet very heating

Like bro 🇦🇿👋🏻

thise working ,,,but not good 
plise dont west your time.

Muito bom ótimo

Can this be applied to a temperature-controlled Fan speed regulator? Trying to build something that will regulate the fan speed at 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% depending on the temperature, starting from 50 degrees C and up to 100 degrees.

Not really sure why you'd need to use a MOSFET with small DC motor when DC current can be applied directly through a  POT with the same result.

How can i make this work with a 24volt dc motor and 8 cell lipo. I have motor hooked up with a toggle switch at the moment but would like to control my speed a little better

Maximum Amps..?

👍👍👍👍👍

BAD IDEA: I uswed it with an old PC 12V power supply. The MOSFET got too hot even after 40 seconds and smell of burning started to reach to my nose. You must modify it with a little more number of components so that MOSFET does not burn.

How does this work?  there's no PWM control here.  As the gate-source voltage drops below the threshold wont there will be excessive heating on the mosfet?

its not a speed control its voltage control and a speed controller only control pulses without decrease in Source voltage ........... your device bad for motor and battery also becoj of lack voltage drop and heat

Is it me or have you wired it in reverse.
99.99% of switches I have ever turned , Clockwise means more power , not less.
BUT ANYWAY ,  GOOD INSTRUCTIONAL VIDEO

Bad circuit 10v power dene par 5v hi output milta hai isase achcha to LM 317 se banaa lete

12 wat   y    6 wat  kiyahi

Potential metre knob slow motion so speed increase😂😂😂😂, wrong connection

how to make it work with 3v battery?

Please can this be used for reducing a 24v DC motor speed from 3000rpm to 1500rpm?

Normally increase position is if move clock wise 😂😂😂but here speed increase when knob move anticlockwise😂😂😂😂😂, wrong connection

Heatsink required for long time runing

I think that would be better

That’s what I was wondering the whole video was the point of the transistor it’s like an extra useless piece for no reason it’s not even doing anything.

For those guys commenting about not using a transistor! ; what a great example of people having zero knowledge about electronics.

Pwm controller will be the best

yes

Its not an efficient idea but you can use it with adopters.. batteries could drain a bit faster than expected in less speed...if you are using less voltage or high voltage application it doesn't matter..it takes same current all the time..in lowest currents the mosphet can become hot

Do you just flip the MOSFET? I'd like to know 😊

Min 6 volts required

What is the transistor doing? Does a potentiometer always have to have a transistor attached?

gear moter kaha se mila h aapna namber do

Is it possible to connect the potentiometer in a way the if you turn it clockwise to increase the speed and counter clockwise to decrease the speed?

my port bluap

I made this but it won’t work with my 4.2v Lipo. How can I make it work at lower voltages?

10k burns when load goes 5amp

Doesn't work,...with potentiometer turned all the way down, I still had 2.1 volts leaking....then I turn up potentiometer and......nothing.

What voltage ranger will this work?

beginning of the video, it sounds like a V10 !!!! loved the vid......<3

abi bu yalan olmuyor aynısısnı yaptım olmuyor

Real work look like in this video...im ready try its.

MAKINA

Solution do

Creative Creator please Grant my permission to IMITATE this circuit idea

Is it possible to use IRF630?

Can we change 3.7 batary by this circuit?

Does torque remain the same!?

low voltage battery can be used ?

IRFZ44N MOSFET

👍

it's a power transistor and a potentiometer cannot take the amount of current (considering most are rated at around 0.2W) so a power transistor allows higher currents to be driven depending on components used

How else would you vary motor speed

just alternate the Potentiometer's ist and 3rd pin

Use buck boost converter

Or a boost circuit works too. A buck converter converts higher voltage dc to lower voltage dc, boost converter converts low voltage dc to high voltage dc, and buck boost converter can convert a high or low voltage to a higher or lower voltage. Buck boost is required if supply(battery in your case) will provide a voltage within a certian number of volts of what you want at the output since boost converters only can supply voltages greater than a few volts above the supply and buck converters only can supply voltage at or below supply voltage ( minus diode voltage drops).

theres no info in this vid about that so look up the parts and do some maths to calculate the max and min voltage (i know this just throwing a wet blanket but its easy to learn that)

Check he was move knob anticlockwise than increase motor speed it's opposite😅😅wrong connection

👍

भाई साहब यह बैटरी कहां पर मिलती है

I made the same circuit with the same components but connected a smartphone battery and it didn't work, although the motor run but there's no observable speed control at all.

There is mistaken

What's the roll of the transistor ?

Thanks brother... subscribed happily... my diy mini drill is very happy now... thanks again for the proper working circuit

Loss of 2v?

Can you use this circuit in high current dc motors? 12v 0.37kw.

I connect 12v 7ah battery to 6v motor but irfz44 mosfet getting smoke and over heat coming

Bro super...... But give the  circuit diagram  to understand clearly

pembodohan kalu tidak pakai hensing panas jebol

Works well - didn't have a Z44N so used an IRF510  - does exactly what I want - great thanks

Its not working bro

พี่ครับมันปั่นไฟขยายลำโพงได้ไหมครับ

พี่ครับมันปั่นไฟขยายลำโพงได้ไหมครับ

I used a D718 transistor and it working, thanks bro, keep on it! 👍

can I use this for a bigger dc fan like a car radiator fan ??

Hi Creative Creator,Why did you add a Transistor to it. What is the use for it.

seems like the pot is operating backwards. example : usually when you turn a pot clockwise, like from 1 to 10 things would increase, and clockwise from 10 to 1 they would decrease.

can I connect using PC power supply? 12v to control pc fan?, will I need heatsink?

You need atleast 6 to 12v for voltage variation

I'd like to know too! Seems not many answers are given on this video sadly

If your MOSFET can handle 30 amps, then sure. Try PWM instead for levels like these.

if your spending money on components or just doing this without knowing stuffs, just buy one         
Edit:buy an actual speed controller its a lot better than this tutorial that lacks info and precautions

Vheck the circuit diagram at rhe end

 @Creativecreator  yaa nice... But show the circuit diagram at first and show at corner of video till complete the project

sorry to ask, Why was a transistor used?

 @willcrane6185  a transistor acts as a variable switch. The potentiometer cannot handle high currents, so it is used to control the input voltage of the transistor. The output of the transistor is based on the input of the transistor, thus, the potentiometer controls the transistor which controls the motor

Or can I use it to slow down the propeller blades on my helicopter? Lmao

I'd like to know too! Did you figure it out at all?

If it happens to you then just reverse the 1 st and the 3rd pin of the pot

Yes you can

Slick little project! Nice and easy. Do you have a similar one for a brushless DC motor (3 wires)?

Muito bom nota 1000

Will the IRF transistor be hot 🔥 if up to 1 amp?

Nice. Can we give 12V DC Adapter as input?

ok

What is the connector of motor and mosfet called?

simply super bro. shall we use the same for brightness control for LED lamp??

Well done man,just what I was looking for ,I was about to ask if a heat sink is needed but you answered already in the discription now you mentioned MOSFET in the video but wrote transistor so can I use a transistor instead....also I have 12 amps DC motor will the electronic components here take this amp draw safely

Bro if we use 5v input thin maximum put  how much we can get ..? 
Please let's me know

Not working

can i plug this into main electric plug 220volts?

Bro,  can i use 12 v adapter?

apakah ini aman untuk di pake dinamo 3 volt jangka waktu yg lama, karna untuk pengatur kecepatan aerator buat mancing

Very good!

Heet mostly

Is the Pot capable of handling the current at sustained loads?

can i use for a 6v solar panel?

Bro kya isse 12v adaptor se chala sakte hain pls reply

Койил зур

Can the variable resistor be used alone without a transistor?

Their is no substitilute, u need to buy esc.
The one u see online with 3 mosfet and few diode doeant work properly.

Yes🙋‍♂️

Brian slowbottom

Yesss bro

 @Creativecreator  thank you

0 to 4.7v

No

Ys

mohon untuk jawaban nya, saya sangat berterimakasih bila anda berkenan menjawab pertanyaan saya

Thank you! Cheers!

The potentiometer doesn't handle any load here, its just controlling the transistor which is handling the load

where is the motor?

Ha

This may work for smaller loads but for bigger loads the potentiometer will be damaged

 @Creativecreator  What is the maximum voltage that it can handle

It is not about max voltage bro it is about current. This is about some mili Amps.
If you say about voltage then i will say if you want to vary speed of a motor then 3 to 5v without mosfet. 
12v for dimming leds 😉

 @Creativecreator  Excuse me, I did not understand, please. Do not speak colloquially, because I am translating behind you. Please explain the information to me and I will be thankful to you.

Nobody noticed that potentiometer was working left to right for decreasing ... usually it does right to left for the same.

I have a question can this work for any voltage i have motor 5kw and 72v and can this princip work for him or

How to get full 12 volts?

9v motor working at that ckt?

এভাবে কাজ করে না, এটা ভুয়া!

If the voltage source is at 24 vdc using a DC-RS775 motor, when lowering the speed, does the torque also go down or stay ?

what am i doing wrong i tried it with  using 12v with a  20k pot and it  just smoked i did use a difrent mosfet

I had made this but the mosfet get heat and blast  so this is not a good project

Bhai ham ise 12 volt transformer se chla sakte he

What is the maximum allowed A?

Hello sir can we use a 470k or else sir can we use 100k Potentiometer.

Hi I'm from Indonesia , this can be up to 15 volts or more??

Sounds really like a high speed racing car!

Thank you this is what I'm looking for. For my electric scateboard

Can we use the same thing for a 9v circuit??

Is this mosfet work for 60watt 24v motor

Great job!!! Love the simplicity!

Bro shall I use irf630 instead of irfz44

Nice😁
Bro
Can i use for 12volt?
Do i need the heatsink?

Sir... Can I use a 3.7v Li-ion battery for a 3v DC motor instead of 12v battery ?

Please let me know.... Im eagerly waiting for your your reply buddy 😀

That I noticed right then,

@CRAZY mAn friend reversing or interchanging pin will not effect the resistance.. bcoz its always in a increasing flow

100k  irf 44 gaththoth hari yanne nedda?

yes if you wanna burn it....but no! buy an actual controller thats rated for that voltage

Connect it directly

Yes easily

Will go down

 @Creativecreator  Well, in that case, is it better to put iC NE555 on that component ? And then, is it torque will be stay when decreasing the speed or still same going down either?

They will do the same

How many volts the maximum input?

That may be the issue

Same happened 2 me.. I think to reduce the heat, use heatsink + fan cooler

yes

Yes bro 💪

4A to 5A with Heatsink

Yes you can

Yes

Yes 😹

Hahaha... good luck building one and drive e skateboard motor with it

I made one to control my e-bike motor that I scrapped from some old Walkman tape players. It works prettt good when going downhill. I’m sure the electric scateboard would work good too using electric tooth brush motors or even a cell phone vibrator motor when going downhill as well. No one scates uphill anyways…. 😂

Also, why use any motors for scateboards when you can epoxy a bundles of boddle rockits and Roman candles. You can dam near fly if you do.

I think you can. 12V is only a bit more than 9V and usually when I use 9v to power my circuits (like amplifiers) that require 12v they end up working properly. Hope this helps.

I am also wanting to know that. If you know, now, could you tell me please? Thank you sir.

Yee

Yes you can

 @Creativecreator  bro shall I use it for 12v 775 motor will it blow or heat highly

can i use lm317

Yes 12v ok
Yes, You will need a heatsink

🤩👍

Yes it will work

Can use the 9v battery for the 3v motor ?

 @shabana230  yes

What we will call that controller tell please 🙏🙏🙏🙏🙏👍

Apakah ada tegangan input maksimum nya?

Hey I followed these instructions and my mosfet is getting really hot, any suggestions?

Heating issue kaise thik kare?

AoA sor, I made one and it worked but despite of heat sink attached, the transistor LM317 ended up pretty hot, it also turned the heat sink too hot to touch. I was using 12v 48amp solar  battery as power source. Any solution for this?

Bhai transistor ka positive terminal left side hota hai lekin tum battery ka positive terminal middle me lage ho.

Bro can we use 100k potentiometer??

Is this helpful for electric scooters

Hi, I'm just getting started in electronics. What is the purpose of using a mosfet? What would happen if only potentiometer was used?

Hi brother, can I use this circuit for a 5 ampere 12v transformer ?, please answer greetings from Indonesia 😄🙏🙏

Maine LM317T ko used krke 555DC motor speed control bnaya hai.... R1 = 1k lagaya hai or potentiometer 10k ka hai..... To jb Mai input Mai 12 volt deta hu to mera output Mai max 10 volt aata hai jo ki motor ko slow kr deta hai.... To mujhe output Mai bhi  12 volt chaiye hoga to kya krna hoga sir...

Hi creative creater- It's very good video, I have tried the same .it's working succesfully.but the speed is not getting too low.how to make speed too slow or stop the motor by varying pot

Great idea. Why didn't you present it in a diagram form as well

No me sirvió

can i use it as an electric fan ? 🤣

Musical is bad😢

Can I use 100k potentiometer instead of 10k ?? Reply😀

Kya ye ac me kam karega

Hey there! I noticed that the know turn direction is back to front, is there a way of making the know turn the other way?

👍Super sir
Very simple circuit
Can I use this for 775motor for drilling purpose
Any mosfet transistor can I use this circuit like IRF540N

potentiometer

Use a heat sink

Yes bigger heat sink required for above 1amp

same issue mera vi horaha he....kaise thik kare heating issue....?

This circuit is a linear converter, so if you try to use the circuit for higher current output then it will eventually heat up. Then you have to use any type of buck boost converter for controlling the motor speed. This circuit is good for 1A constant output. You can also use a circuit where 555 Timer is used for generating pwm pulses and it drives a n channel mosfet. And that mosfet is used for powering the motor. Specially here all current handling part is done by a mosfet. So it can handle much amps (5-10A).
Happy Building 😊
Don’t forget to subscribe:)

 @Creativecreator  thanks for your reply. I've already subscribed

You need to know the basics first.

Yes

 @Creativecreator  thanks for replying bro

No bro I will highly suggest you to use premade PWM Speed controllers. This is because those can handle high amps.

potentiometer will burn due to high current. The MOSFET acts a variable switch that changes it's voltage while being able to support high amperage. The input or gate of the MOSFET is controlled by a potentiometer which cannot support that much amperage.

 @YeetTheAn3On  Thanks! I get it now. It's like using a switch to control a relay. The potentiometer is the switch and the mosfet is the relay

if the output is DC it might work but 5 amp is a lot, add a resistor to be sure

 @AitoLaikoSamoMoaCawfy  thank you friend for helping me 😅🙏🙏

If u input 12v lm317t then output 10.5v 
1.5v use for gate

Use high value potentiometer

I am using 3volts input dc source. Can you suggest what is the pot value

Can I use 100 K

Yes try it it will work

Even If I use 100k pot , high speed will remain as it is right ?

Kyu

Yes, but you need a blade protector so you won't get hurt by an blade

No 🤣🤣

me Also i use 100k potential resistance but the motor turn slowly

Use Triac for ac

Exchange engine cables.

Malisimo...casi qe me quema el potenciómetro😕

Fake and wrong circuit..it will burn potentiometer

Bro if i connect 9v battery it will work or not?

Bai eh ic bahut jyada  heat kyo hota hai 12 ah ki battery par

bhai tumne ye lipo battery kha se purchase ki???

Isn’t work

abe ja na

Why make such a bad video? Leave it running for a minute and that mosfet will burn up. Can you show the power dissipation of that mosfet in this linear power supply?

this is great

When reducing the speed will it reduce the power? Means torque will also reduce or not?

this 10k pot won't last long

Can we use cfl transisitor

Might be a dumb question but can you make it increase clockwise?

mosphet get tooo much hot

very bad

Fake

Emmmmmm, yeah it works, but quickly burns out........

Mosfet is over hit

too much current/voltage lower voltage and amp will do it (the potentiometer did the resistors job so applying some wouldn't hurt) (also do some research to further understand what your doing so you dont end up burning your house)

asi es
ya he quemado tres

Yes

Yes bro.
You have to use a heatsink

 @Creativecreator  can u show the heat sink how to use in circuit

Just attack a heat sink with the mosfet it will be great

 @Creativecreator  how to use heat sink and range pls

Form local

 @Creativecreator  Mine worked for about 3-4 times , now my N44 Z  gets super hot

 @Creativecreator  NO ANSWER ???

I'd like to know this too! Did you ever find out?

 @akongas  It does. It's adding series resistance. The remaining power is burnt off as heat by the mosfet.

How come? Any suggestions? I'm new to all this

You will need a n channel mosfet for this project 😀

Turn the potentiometer around 180 degrees, or swap the Pin 1 & 3 connections.

Then use a bigger heat sink - Whalla

You have to use heat sink

 @Creativecreator  hmmmm, I put a 30gram heatsink on it.  And I connected it with a 20w load,  it heat up to 60 degree c in 1 minute.
Something muss being wrong.....

