Very good demonstration but due to your fast talking and your accent it is so difficult to judge the values of the resistors and the worst thing you do not supply a circuit diagram. Really it is a shame as it is a nice project for the youngsters. Many thanks for your kind effort.

Your explanation is very detailed and speech clearity is very good.
And why we are connecting that you are telling is important and not in others videos

I faced many problems during this project but they helped to clear my doubts. Very thankful to you for this video 😁

Nice project!  It would be nice to have a schematic of the entire circuit sir.

Kaash ye video pehle mil jata 🙂

Its very much useful... Nice project.. 👍👍👍

thanks for this video really helped me a lot!

Usefull video good explanation

Superb working.... Best video I had ever seen

Very awsome circuit and useful circuit! I would use a push on push off latch for the led though.

Superb,,,, this is how it should be taught... Paa G tusi great ho.... Keep up the good work.

It was a really helpful video but can you please provide us with a circuit diagram it would be great.

Great sir nice explanation 👍👍

Thank you such much sir

Great experiment. ...

thank you so much it worked

Good information

Well Explained

Can you make a video on music reactive led using an op amp & rc low & high filter for bass & treble LEDS

Nice project!  It would be nice to have a schematic of the entire circuit sir.  Nice video.

Exactly

my led  always shining

after long time video........

Allah nazare bad se bachay keep rocking you rokc

Bro please upload all your projects circuit diagrams as a video

Udaya ✌️👍👌🔋💡

Made a inverter circuit  ... You are awesome .

Hi sir, could you pls send mebworking notes of this project 
.

awesome explanation my doubt is can we use bistable mode for off and on

hi @elonics can i please have the schematic of the final circuit, i saw a circuit near the end of the video, but u included more resistors and a capacitor not sure, how this is connected in a schematic.

U r amazing!!
1000000000% working
Thank u so much.

Please make a video on reconditioning the lead acid battery

hi your mini project is incredible I would like to ask all the names of the component needed

Nice project, Circuit diagram please

Bro how much volts did you use

Thank you, make more videos please.

Very good project.can you make it like 1st clap on 2nd clap off.

This vedio is become more  informative if u provide circuit diagram

What voltage of capacitor should we use?

Bro my bc547 transistor heats up, why is that? I used 9v battery and changer the resistors to 470 because what you said. Please  reply asap

please help me to connect a potentiometer so that I can adjust the distance of me and the sensor

BRO NOT WORKING

Sure, I will

Your english is good

Upload video for audio amplifier

Can u please send me u r circuit diagram

how can i use it for 220 v bulb

Can u give the link for circuit diagram??

how to increase its sensitivity

Bro on off switch kesa kare

you have to post the schematic?

Bro Pls give circuit diagram .....

very well explained 🔥

circuit diagram please

We have to use 3 trasisters same power?

Can we use 1k resistor for 9v

Sir can you please provide me the circuit diagram ?

does this work for AC voltage? i have 12V ac

can we lock the output like normal 555 circuit?

can I uss 28 number copper wire?

Can we use a Panasonic speaker

sir, can u give me curcuite diagram

How have you got the values of capacitor and resistor that is shown, can you explain why aren't you using some other values of capacitor and resistor?

Why didn't you add C' between pin5 and ground???

Hi sir .I am try project but relay not warking this project any solution?

Sir please upload the link forbthe circuit diagram.Am doing this project sir.Please help me out by uploading the circuit

i can,t find the link

can u give circuitdiagram of this

Can I do the same connection with 741 op amp if not can u make a video regarding it please 🙏

Hello sir isme speaker lagaye

how to reverse it

Bro can you send circuit dig of this  clap switch

Great!! you can add a relay to control ac appliances.

If we use 5v relay is it works

Bisa buatkan untuk lampu Lhe

How to increase light glow time

Is it necessary to use IC

Can you please tell me what are the material all

Very good, I will also make and upload in YouTube. Keep it up !!!!  
You will have millions of subscriber soon.

can you use a 2n222 transistor

Bro reply your Facebook name and id

Is there a schematic present please ?

please send schematic diagram

Yes. That will be of much use for Clap on and Clap off circuits

 @elonics  sir can you help me to make day after tomorrow my science fair please help me

Bro without timer is it possible

Bro please make an video clap to on and clap to off in a single board.

Sir can i ask  question?

can u send the tinkercad of this circuit?

i am working with 9 volt supply and my led is always getting bright

Very good explanation. I will try this circuit. Thanks.

Apakah bisa mic condensor diganti dengan mic dynamic?

Do you have a circuit diagram of this circuit??

Can we use any npn

sir can i know which coponents are required to do this i am not undesting what u had provided..

What can i do if i use a sound sensor?

bro which mic was used

Please make a video on inverter circuit

What if i want to keep the LED on until i clap a second time, what should i do then?

Sir need the material required please..

Please make some video on museum protection system using transistors touch sensor buzzer

Hii, i really need schematic diagram on this one. Please help me

diagram ?

Diagram link

Please make new videos 🙏

Kowshik Hero read the video's description

you use cd 4017 instead of 555

You're welcome

Sure. Maybe in a month.

Maybe you can use this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yXPxY6-Caz4
You'll connect only the probes used for turning on the output.

Follow the link below the video to his site with schematics.

Izzat Rusyaidi if u find this diagram then send me please?

 @gevinization  it doesnt have this one, trust me i also need it

Circuit diagram

Led tirns on on the first attempt

No use I kept on increasing resistance from 470ohm to 100kohm still light glows continuously

can you please tell me which condenser microphone did you use.

Circuit diagram!?

Can you make that on clap led will on and again clap make led off and can you make to on AC applications with relay

what IC did you use?

a clap has to turn on with one clap and off with another clap

how do you get the led to stay on?

Is there a possible way to compare the sound into decibel?

please fast

This is awesome video. Can I ask that how many volts at the output of the 555 Timer if we use 5V supply voltage?

And another video that clap to onn but push off button to off with explaination..

3.3k ohms resistor ,condenser microphone , bc 547 npn transistor , 270 oms ,1 k ohms , led , bc 547 270 ohms 100 k ohms resistor  2.5 uf capcitor 270 ohms and 3 led 1 k ohms resistor 100 nf capcitor

can i use simple normal wires for connecting

Can I use the mic from old headphones? Please reply

What was the last capacitor can u please tell please reply

Please give ckt diagram

how this circuit  can differentiate between a clap sound and other sound??

Bhai logo ko Pagal samja ha kea dakhata kuj ho kirta kuj hoo

Yes, will make another video for toggling the output and adding a relay

Use 50V IC

Not unless you use an arduino/microcontroller.
If precision is not required, you can try vu meter circuits

Thanks; Approximately 5V

Can u send circuit

Yes

Yes i think

That capacitor is used to reduce noises to trigger the 555 timer ic

This circuit requires high intensity sound to get triggered. The source of this sound doesn't matter

Sir buzzer connection where should i give the buzzer terminals in the breadboard

Sir,Circuit diagram?

Only this channel makes circuit as well as explain it others are just making circuits from schematics no explanation nothing at all..

ckt diagram pls

Sir can you provide a circuit diagram of this circuit,it would be very helpful

Sir , when i am starting the circuit led remains on

Can we use a 330 ohm resistor for 9 v power supply?

can you tell if it is possible to use mosfet instead of npn ones here ? If yes then which one?

0:51 I thought it was called a piezo?

At 2:30, the LED in my case acts inversely. It glows by default and when I blow air or tap the mic, it dims / turns off slightly. What am I doing wrong?

The only difference is I am using BC546B instead of BC547 due to availability.

It is much easier by arduino

Circuit please

Can we use another resistance instead of a 100k resistance?

How much it may costs for this project

Sir I used not gate (IC7404) instead of transistors ..it is working ...but how do I increase the sensitivity?

Sir my led still goes on continously,  tell me the solution ,i have chnges resistor value up to 1.5k  ohms and am using 9V battery kindly give me a solution i want to submit my projecy

why no polarity for the capacitor and also for the LED?

sir, it worked. how can I connect it to ac supply then to a lighting system?

Sir update stop watch project using 3 ( 7 segment)

Hi sir please add this project with schematics and working on your site elonics

Can u share circuit diagram

Yeah need circuit diagram

Thanks!

Can u send circuit diagram

Have you got the circuit diagram???

Did u get circuit

did you solve the problem?

You can give it a try, but it might heat up a little bit.

Ki

No, mosfets can't replace the npn ones. Gain can't be controlled using mosfets and the circuit ends up being too sensitive. You can use alternative npn transistors like 2n2222, 2n3904 etc.

Send me circuit diagram

Nope. That's a condenser microphone

Elonics - Electronics Projects on Breadboard oh ok, but what is the difference between the two?

4N4C0ND4 64M1N6 a condenser microphone is used to detect sounds, while a piezo is either used to produce sound or detect vibrations (like sounds). But I would say that for detecting sounds, a condenser is better suited for the job.

ALEXANDER POLTZER ty

4N4C0ND4 64M1N6 you're welcome!

 @alexanderpoltzer8885  at 0:43  what is this on the most right side ,something in black.whats its purpose?

Faced the same problem:
Found out that , if the collector is in high state it means there is no base current (transistor is in off state)- this is due to the 330 ohms resistor , 
when you remove that resistor it works properly as he said in the video

 @YuvarajR24BCE149  Oh interesting. I increased the resistor value to 15K and it worked properly. I am not sure why that happened.

Ya but it costs very little compared to arduino based circuit

Can u send

Given parts used it looks like around $4.

Great! For improving sensitivity, try increasing the value of series resistor used with the condenser microphone

 @elonics  thank you ill try 😊

I've been meaning to make this for my 12th standard CBSE project. Does the given schematic actually work? I don't want to waste time and supplies on a project that doesn't work. Your reply will be really helpful.

 @himanshitomer7502  Yes it works. But I would suggest to understand how it works so that you can tweek the circuit as you want.

Hi bro do you find any solutions of this problem pls help me

Send me circuit diagram

It's mentioned in the video

You need to connect a relay module at the output of 555 timer IC

Can u send the circuit diagram

Will do

bro i need circuit diagram ASAP plz plz

Can u tell me asap how much voltage did u use in ur project

Circuit diagram ???

Hello beginner here just asking is this applicable to DC Fan?

Amplifier is very important to circuit or not? Please reply because I don't attached amplifier in circuit

Bad and not work circuit

🤔...💬 
looking for information 
to build a simple project

Question 1 
what sensor would be better to use in a simple project
1 sound sensor
2 motion sensor

Question 2 
What is the maximum range of a sound sensor and
can you increase the range of sound sensors

Question 3 
What is the maximum range of a motion sensor and
can you increase the range of a motion sensor

Circuit diagram?

Hi sir .I am try project but relay not warking this project any solution

How to change Sensitivity

If I use 9V what resistor should I use and how many?

Circuit diagram

how much volts your are using sir

Hi sir .I am try project but relay not warking this project any solution

Hi sir .I am try project but relay not warking this project any solution

Hi sir .I am try project but relay not warking this project any solution

Hi sir .I am try project but relay not warking this project any solution

6V

 @elonics  thanks

 @elonics  what did u mean by 0v at trigger pin of de ic

Yes, you can connect small DC fans at the output

It is necessary

Used both 6V & 9V

