Nothing gets my blood pumping more than a clever engineering solution. If you want to develop the brain muscles to build your own clever engineering solutions every month with me, head to https://www.crunchlabs.com where you can get 2 boxes FREE.

As a Rwandan, I am thrilled to see the progress my country is making through technology, and the impact that innovative companies like Zipline are having in developing countries. The revolutionary work of Zipline in providing medical supplies via drone technology is changing lives and improving access to healthcare in rural areas. I am grateful to see this highlighted in a video by Mark Rober, and I appreciate the attention it brings to the positive advancements happening in Rwanda.

Cool to see you talking about Zipline. We made a video about them years ago when they just had 1 depot in Rwanda. I knew they would be the future. Incredible company

An 88% mortality rate reduction is actually insane. Thank you so much for sharing about  this company to all of us, and I really hope they spread across the world because just imagine, 88% of deaths in hospita could be prevented with this (although I guess it’s gonna be more impactful in somewhere like Rwanda, but still, it’s crazy

He said it’s the very near future of package delivery yet it’s been two years lol

As an Australian, I can’t believe this hasn’t been adopted to aid the rural communities in the Northern Territory and Western Australia. Hopefully someone important sees this and can help save the lives of those living rurally. Absolutely heart warming video

Mad respect for Abdul. Was feeling down about my own life but homie suffered far worse and turned out a kind and helpful person. Aspiration and respect for not being destroyed and being so contributing and willing to continue

The “1 video per year dedicated to how engineers make the world a better place” are usually my favorite video of the year.
Thanks Mark!

Thanks!

The kid showing Abdul his model drone was one of the greatest things I’ve ever seen. Imagine seeing someone be inspired like that by something you built

I honestly couldn’t help but tear up a little watching this video. Abdul’s story, Rwanda’s story, the technological utilization for life-saving measures, and the overall attitude of both the people and their community. This is an amazing video and should be shared all over the world! Thank you for bringing attention to their amazing endeavors, Mark ❤️

honestly, what this company is doing has been one of the most inspiring things ive seen recently

Abdul is a LEGEND and I hope he has a wonderful and long life.

I find it so fascinating how Zipline probably wasn’t known about by a lot of us, but now that Mark basically exposed them to millions of people, they have more of a chance to make a difference worldwide! I hope they succeed and make the world a better place for everyone who struggles with problems like the ones that their solving now.

The Zipline looks another interesting example of Burnelli's Lifting Fuselage.

Thanks!
  What is WRONG with our media?  Why doesn't EVERYONE know about Zipline and their awesome (both from a technical and a humanitarian point of view) system, ?
  I haven't seen squat about  them in Mechanical Engineering, Technology Review, or Discover magazines, much less mainstream media.  They definitely deserve more coverage.
  Thanks so much for your coverage, as well as all your crazy/silly/fun projects.

  Continue to keep us smiling, Mark

The "1 video per year dedicated to how engineers make the world a better place" are usually also my favourite video of the year

Thanks Mark

It isn't often that tech innovation brings a tear. This is one of those times it truly did. Thanks Mark for sharing this with the world. Massive kudos to the Zipline team.

I genuinely think this is one of the best and most hopeful things I've ever seen.
Wishing great success to Zipline. Here's to a hopeful future for us all!

What a phenomenal company, and as always, amazing story. Thanks Mark!

Omg im so greatfull for the great minds of the people in our world

 @killloane  You mean minds of Americans in San Francisco who founded the company?

Love your work bro ❤
Thank you👏👏👏

Thats smart bro

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

bet

 @SuperGamersTV35  omg

Your description of zipline gave me tears,this is truly amazing.

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head? @mark Rober

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?😮

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?😢

If u see this ur cool :)

88% if they IPO i am all in... :)

MacGyver would be a close 2nd

Hi mark your the greatest

This is just amazing! I have imagined something like this would be in future, but had no absolute idea it was existing already, especially being used to save lives.
Thank you for showing this💝

I am infertile from eating scented candles

Alr

That’s amazing I love the robot drone

Rwanda is also my second favorite country, Mark.  I'm excited you got to experience it! My family has been supporting preschool education and early childhood nutrition there since 2014 feeding around 1000 3-5 year olds 5 days a week so they will be ready to start primary school!

What's to prevent a prankster from grabbing onto that zipline and wrapping it around the nearest fence post, lamp post, etc?

How can I donate to the purchase and distribution of soccer balls in Rwanda?

Its not the pie in the sky pipe dream demonstrated by cgi only. Its a fully working proven system actually fulfilling a need. Now thats the best advert for drone delivery I have ever seen.

I remember how dark it was when Rwanda went through the genocide.  To see life being restored with an engineering concept in a country where so many youth raised themselves is a miracle.

And it doesn't even ask that you leave snacks! That's a bonus 😊

Please keep mixing this type of video in Mark and team. This is what we needed. You are breeding more engineers with each video.

And if we have an engineering solution we genuinely think could make it into one of your YouTube videos, how to we submit it for a collab?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?😢😅

@Mark Rober, idk if this is a reasonable or fair Critique to your Ambulance Idea at 19:00, But in a limited degree we already have airborne ambulances that pick up critical cases. Its called a Helicopter, the already flying car. Now I think what does make sense is that helicopters could be significantly smaller, possibly atonomus and much quieter. But the limitation placed on an ambulance, that you need Medical personelle to take care of the patient means that they need to be able to carry about 3-4 people and equipment that is quite heavy...

I am definetly looking forward to the technological advances in drones crossing over to helicopters. But I think we will have to wait and see for a while...

This concept is so futuristic.

How many children were exploited to mine the materials needed for the batteries?

Proud to be with crunchlabs since it began!

What an amazing story

first

hello

Thank you for your inspiration

Why doesn’t the hospital just store the blood? Problem solved

I've Emailed you about an Engineering Project that has the potential to do the World, I don't know if you got the Email, but when you have the chance, you should check to see if you received it.

Mark, you should consider selling actual electrical components. Or at least sourcing them, the inspiration you bring is huge but I believe if you can offer actual building supplies and maybe even plans, it could really help change the world. (Your kid boxes but for adults)

0:35 before we continue. When I go out to the park for example, I prefer to sit under a shade, which means a tree.

These will be used for surveillance

💥 S U P E R 💥

Not to be "that" person, but how many HUMAN jobs is lost or provided with this ? Because I know big companies love not having to employ or pay people "cutting down costs"/"the false unicorn of eternal profit". And what are the possible MISSUSES of this technology ? Can they be intercepted by a third party, for instance ?

I’ve goten hit by a drone

Me to ! I❤engering

❤❤❤❤

shehsh

cooendwknd

Oh great more restrictions on rc heli, plane & drone recreational hobbyists.

38th

af

Ha

What an idea. I hope there are more soon!!

True

yes

drone

Mark rober, if I was a woman and you weren’t married I’d love you

…

erm that delivery püod thing isnt a droid. like r2d2: thats also not a droid.

I HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR ALMOST A YEAR

Hi

Hmm

yes boss

Thanks

w content

nah

Did my dude really use a Tacoma to deliver?!? As a person who has a Tacoma and delivers, I an asking why😊

hey

DO YOU SEND TO SG

Hint this to Adam Something, he will scrap it in 3min vid

Apartments?

I was here before 1 million views

Same for me

Hey Mark is it possible for me to buy 2 subscriptions for my nieces? I'd love to send these boxes to them and get them inspired to look into the STEM field. To be honest would love for them to be in IT but something tells me fun projects like yours will entice them more than my infrastructure builds lol

mark ... i believe that the great equalizer and solver of the worlds problems is to offer opportunity to everyone to become the engineer  that that they can be, these are the true innovators, solving a problem with grit and turning tragedy in triumph ... I commend you and you mission to highlight this  and  find inspiration in your quest..

I got to watch one of your videos in Class lol

can you send your crunch lab box to other countries using this drone.

 @hasnaincreationsworld9708  oh I must've misunderstand

Your the best

Is this a publicly traded company?

So your drone idea going put more people out of work.

what about pigeons flying in the way of drones?

Wait if they have so much blood at the launch site, why couldn't they just ship it all in a truck to the hospitals instead of making on-demand flights???

Always thot why we never used the dropping bombs method to drop small packages too :)

Thanks
 dude

@mark You're the only person I'll stop and listen to at all times. I trust your judgement, I watch and appreciate your process, and I love your curriculum.

Mark and the Green Bros. You will be able to be part of a new world with them Xd

nice

What happens if someone tries to take the drones down.

cheng

People need jobs 😢

I see the pun

Mark your video was extraordinary but there is one downside to it if every food delivery establishment uses drones instead of people millions of food deliveries will loose thier jobs

I think this is the best thing I’ve watched all year :)

11:16 ayo mark u dont have to rip his arms off😂

what is miles ??

Thanks for all the help. With how to think like a engenier . The knowledge of the learning and problem solving process. Has been involuable

I it just me or is mark posting more than twice a year

"They took our jobs!!!!!

This makes me wonder, what are be the drawbacks to this (If you know or can think of any)?

I'm here my favorite channel

UFO confirmed 👍

So, with this coming out how does this work on the potential unemployment in the future? Every automation means less jobs for people, sadly.

Sure W

CAN WE GET THIS ON THE REZ?

epic mark rover video again

spindrift is cool

its great, we pre fill the hospital fridges

Mark my birthday is in Jun 27 if you can come to my birthday

My question is on how they know where to deliver it if they are doing city packaging

One of your best yet.

ok

bring it to convention centers

Please make 11 videos per year!  A 10% increase would be great!!!!

I don't want drones flying around, delivering things to my neighbors.

How does Mark Rober have defined pecs and ab muscles, but such skinny, undefined biceps? Those 2 opposites don't usually go together in the same body. I'm seriously curious how that came about.

Boop

What if you leave near an airport?

very cool drone :)

Blood drones saving lives is something so beautiful

The question with this technology is, how will they deconflict drone air traffic?

yo, this fr

your the best mark!

lol

Do you plan to support other countries and languages? Like Latin America?

Hi

Can you post twice a month please!

I think the idea is nice but it would make so many people out of money that do doordash

yes last mile delivery is responsible for so much traffic, pair this with a well thought out new  train system you could  reduce  on big rigs too!

65square next

Nothing? Tiddies get my blood flowing more, but engineering stuff is interesting.

So what you're saying is.. I'm about to lose my job.

mom

How does this now coagulate the blood from the drop of the blood hitting the ground?

but i dont want it to change everything... i dont want to wake up and find out that my car was stolen

Mark: This is some amazing engineering! Look at all these amazing people and their inspiring stories!  

Also Mark: I just saved a life!

What are they plan on doing with general aviation and amateur RC?

Do you have any jobs going?
I work at house of science in New Zealand, seems very similar to us.
Would love to be apart of the team.

I'm not cying, You're cying!!

@Acr0nymsss  i THINK the bedbug one was for feb

agreed

@Acr0nymsss Ikr?

So no more jobs....eliminate delivery drivers, cashiers, waitresses, factory assemblers.  How will anyone have money to order anything if there is no more labor jobs? 😢

Hey Mark Rober love the videos and keep the great work :)

The launching system kind of makes you think of aircraft carrier runways.

Ok

Thank you for this amazingly awesome video. We need more of what you do with the attitude you have doing it makes all the difference.

Wonder how many birds protecting their nesting territory from predatory birds are going to be slashed to death?? 🐦😥

Where can I develop brain cells?

Nice vacation. 👍

Amazing technology! Zipline and you are really helping the world for the better. Thank you Mark! ❤

Imagine if one of those things mistakes your roof for the driveway (~same color) and you have to go climbing lol.

How can you be happy about thousands being without a job?

I hope storms take them out.

 @Spek.  Hahaha.
Yeah.

Humans being replaced.

Cool bit of tech ...

Thank you Mark!

Team bees

No Seatbelt? Bad.

@MarkRober Thats fab Mark @MarkRober. but .. how do I avoid the things? I'm not looking for a ear-chopping van gogh look.  or how do you stop them being downed by people with malicious projectile devices? or Hijacking?

I do wonder what laws (if any) should be put in place in U.S.A. to insure people in 100 years still have jobs. I love tech, but still...I wonder.
Awesome vid btw :D

Might be quicker than cars at first but more deliveries =more air space paths needed which in turn slows rate perhaps

the drone is not gonna be used his content shows revolutionary stuff that will be used in a distant future not now cause of different laws imagine one off the drones falling, imagine a malfunction of the drone causing a car incident, battery life, signal distance. yes the videos are cool but mark isn't in control of the government and I don't think he controls the laws of it.

What about the wind?upside-down kite springs to mind lol 😂

The songs are Plants versus zombie music. If you were wondering

FAA has entered the chart

Mark what does it take to get you to collaborate? Is there a specific email?

WHY DO YOU USE PLANTS VS ZOMBIES MUSIC

This is great innovation, is there built in tech the prevent bird accidents?

Very doog

So do they have to worry about pepper trying to rob them for the blood??

dudeee you're the willy wonka of the engineers

It almost looks like a submarine

why don't hospital keep blood by themselves? huh

Has nothing to do with the video but you’d think with his specialty in engineering and robotics, he would at least be in a bot fight once. Why hasn’t he done bot fights?

That's awesome 👍🏻👍🏻 we need see people like him you can see how much it's inspiring the kids the number one goal 👍🏻👍🏻

other than the shark week videos

I am so incredibly inspired by Mark Rober by showcasing the amazing people creating these systems. You will never know how many people you caused to invest it or raise awareness for this company. Think about the lives that were saved by your video giving them publicity. I have had my qualms with some of your content recently, but this is why I stick with you. Videos like these. Thank you. Truly. Thank you.

Is there any way to invest in this company?

Hey Mark, thank you for this great video! It is so refreshing to see a modern view on Rwanda. We are doing business in Rwanda since a couple of years and the startup community and what is happening in this country is amazing. You can really feel the startup vibe in Kigali.

This is a billion dollar company in the making.

Thank you for not glossing over the Wrandan genocide like every media outlet in the world did when it was happening.

Amazon will probably buy them and ruin it. But how does it handle wind shear?

Yes

Thats a great idea only problem is theft

What about in the winter mark?

This is it! That drone is so silent. hWtf. That's beautiful. Bring the tech to my country. Less pollution and traffic. Delivery drivers better start looking for another job

Your videos are amazing

Nothing gets MY blood pumping more than my heart

AMAZING!

Wait this is all cool and all but wouldn’t this take peoples jobs?

Sir I have an idea can I help

How are they ZERO emissions when they are charged off electricity from the grid from fossil fuels when they fight nuclear????

Keller Rinaudo Cliffton is the designer and CEO of Zipline.  He worked less than three months in San Francisco after graduating.  Then he lived in his van to do rock climbing.

Haha now I understand why we saw you in Rwanda haha

13:010

ڜصصڜس

Some questions I had - 
- the landing seems a bit rough for those packages, would all medical supplies be able to handle that kind of impact?
- Why are blood banks not present in the hospital and so far away that you need a drone to deliver it?

If this ever comes to my town, I want to be the first person they interview for a career there. This is awesome!!!

Amazing innovation

I got a question about CrunchLabs boxes, are the videos or instructions available solely in English or also in Spanish?

Quick question: How do the drones choose where to land. I cant help but think that the drone might accidentally give your package to their neighbour. Would it be a type of system where each person gets a metal disc which the drone is programmed to land the food on?

Honestly facinates me that engineering and designing can go this far. Science is amazing!!!

12:10
Drone apocalypse scene, is this from Terminator?

As cool as this idea sounds, you failed to mention human aspect of it. In my country (india) the second the drone lands it would be torn apart by people looking to sell parts for scrap....

So I did the math and its acceleration is 216.6 repeating mi/hr/s

Just AMAZING

You should buy them a lot of soccer balls etc

@MarkRober Why do u need to wait before  u return to Rwanda to give them footballs? U can go to a shop in Rwanda & buy footballs there if u really want to! Youre an engineer but u cant think of this! 🤪 If u say footballs are cheaper in the US, then how about the logistic fees? Just the same! Pls use your BRAIN!🧠

 @TravelForFoods  I never said he had to wait

Technology is improving each year

Hi

 @Snazzy16  hello

Hello

 @jacobdoddington123  hello

Amazing

Amazing amazing

Hi.

Gets ur blood pumping!? What exactly do you mean by that mark!? Where is this blood pumping? 😫

Learn to drive ☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️🚜🚜🚜☝️☝️☝️☝️☝️

Amazing, simply amazing!

Then what if you live in China (which I am)?

I'm curious how they will handle heavy rain & other weather circumstances.

This was so interesting to watch! Please show a follow up video when you go back and give all the kids soccer balls ❤

I felt a disturbance in The Force as though sales of ball-bearing launching sling shots rose suddenly.

Because of nerds and inventions now we got cancers and sickness you’re doing a great job😂

I Guess Wingcopter didn't want to sponsor you. Maybe one day Zipline will catch up.

I have a question about crunch lab. Does it also ship to the netherlands

I dare you you to work with antscanda

well I'm out of a job 😮‍💨

This is ReMARKable!

RATED R MOVIE TRAILER PLAYED 3 TIMES DURING THIS VIDEO!!!!  BEWARE IF WATCHING WITH KIDS!!!
 Hey Mark, love the video though!!!

I really prescient you bringing things to light that don’t usually get seen, but can you make sure people know about the guy that made electricity through soundwave because people to take him out because he will change the world on electricity like we don’t need oil

my main concern is air traffic/air traffic control and how it could be implemented into cities, or built up areas.

How would this work in the winter for places more north? Would the drones have the same effectiveness in the winter/snow?

That's cool and everything but it's completely impractical to people who live in apartments aka young adults aka the very people you need to adopt new tech to get it off the ground.

Its so cool zip line

Hello

Onolooooooo 21:32 21:32 o 😮k

mark im so hungry could you please get me some pbj somehow pls

Could you make a video on bottle rockets because I am having competition in a few months and I want to prepare

What about a little bigger parachute, wouldn't that help with a softer landing?

@Mark Rober This drone is a great invention, but if it is used in Markets for deliveries the markets will get unsafe and unsafe

You need to make a robot that goes in the ocean and cleans

Can you give us new video?

I LOVE YOUR VIDS

I’m not Rwandanbut this is great!

6:49 6:49

Instead of sending soccer balls...why not MAKE A DIFFERENCE and send some of those CRUNCHLAB kits to those kids...?
What do you say Mark?

Why don't they use mini blimps?

Wouldn't it be better if hospitals managed their own blood bank facilities? Some places even have AI Robots that deliver items to Doctors, Nurses, and Medical Support Staff.

Spanish? Mark?

And sorry but i can't  suscribe in crunh labs For money i'm in Venezuela 😢

Y se puede pedir comida ❤❤❤😂😂😂

Qué bueno que todo en mi país martes en todo eso en mi país de mi amigo y reconoce mi voz porque no me llamas matándome que estoy en esto no sé qué

Отлично подойдет для бомбы😂😂😂🇷🇺 👉👌🛩️🚀🇺🇦💥💀☠️

А если надо другую страну уже ставить🛫🛬😊

Indo sendiri😢

❤

I like the idea of getting cars off the street but if a load of. Drones were in the sky there would be a lot of air traffic

 Ashie69 same

Okay

Привет

Saludos, muchas gracias por los interesantes videos,, me llamo Jose Angel, soy de España, he entrado en su pagina pero me encuento que todo está en ingles, he visto que si hacen envios a España, pero no hay una traduccion al Español y mi ingles es muy limitado, por lo que me es imposible conocer sus productos, de los cuales estoy muy interesado para diferentes chavales de mi familia, claro que si todo es en ingles incluidos los experimentos y las construciones no podria entregarselo, pues hay niños pequeños que aun no dominan su idioma, al igual que ya algunos padres que no tuvimos la oportunidad de estudiar su idioma. ¿Tienen ustedes pensado alguna solucion a diferentes idiomas?, pues me parecen muy didacticos y muy interesantes,, gracias

❤

У меня друг Абдул 5:18

Le décalage

So you have all of these tech, but instead of using it for law enforcement, you use it for food

How much to finance your inventions? 🤔

Hello 🤩 👋 Mark! 
Why I don't may registered  with my e-mail? 😮😢 
In the link under this video. 😅

لكلامك عن الطائرات الهادئه البشريه في اخر الفيديو لدينا نفسها في نيوم في المملكها العربية السعوديه تستخدم بسسب بعد الاماكن عن بعضها لانها منطقه جبليه

If u don’t can u use the drone for crunch labs

Hi

I look up to you. I’m probably gonna be Cam computer engineer.

>:(

Je m'appelle Abdoul

Your big drone idea is called a chopper 😅😂

Happy diwali

I love science Mark and I’m a big fan of you

So nice and meaningful ❤❤❤

So nice and meaningful ❤❤❤

Gajab

❤❤❤😅😅😊

Your already thinking the future😅

Keep going I love your vids and I need more😊

Crunch labs sadly isn’t in my country 😞

👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍

OK YAY😊

​ @tank_plays  ❤

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’

V

💡

2 videos in 2 weeks 🔥 best day ever

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

What If when it gets delivered it lands on someone’s head?

V

Wow

One sec 0:15  that's not possible

I heard viagara helps also with blood pumping

srry, im bored :/

I feel like this would be very helpful if deployed with explosives in Ukraine.

I think you missed something when listing off Mark. It would also take away thousands of jobs from people...

I do food reviews while I’m high on my YouTube channel, first mexican to hop on the tube & do This

Dude! Your videos are so flickery! Get headache while watching. Nice content though

@markrober Yo mark! Awesome episode. If you want to do something similar but completely different, I could use a business-partner.

Will you talk about urban engineering and it potential impact on us cities?

MARK ROBER
SMALL BUSINESS KILLER

I have a question, what about those who rely on doing deliveries? Like delivery drivers

That drone will cause serious losses in jobs, not cool

where can i buy your drones though? im finna buy all of them

Mind Blowing

Oh yeah bruh?! For me, It's not giving you my money!

First though "just another drone!!"
That lasted about 10 seconds.
1:30 in.... Hmmmm has potential!
.
By 2:30 ..... I was hooked (literally😉)

‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎E

Engineering is fun but what about the millions of people who have jobs in the delivery industry?

I N N O V A T I O N  !!

I guess when the electric light bulb  was introduced, a lot of tallow sellers and candlemakers were a bit miffed.

Na progress-oh.

W

Facts bro

Mark!!! Yes

$æx

This and other drone companies need to give me $1,000 dollars a month UBI in advance for the hundreds of thousands and millions of jobs they will replace. Otherwise people should destroy these drones on sight.

 @pikeeper2406  cap it was this guy Dannyyy

SHAMLESS PLUG BRUV

​ @leafinout-youtube  he's making profit from teaching children about science, what better way to make money

no offence, but i am mega shocked they let a gormless youtube handle something life and death

 @douglasparkinson4123  
No offence, but "don't judge a book by it's cover"

11:11 only 200 in 10 whole years?

This would cost a lot of people their livelihood and jobs ! Sadly I hate this video .

 @Slyfox1775  hah, was it Opposite Day? If so i am so sorry for what I said  to my brother-

Bro them timed stoplights tho

 @xX_sauceboss_Xx  Arent timed traffic lights normal tho? Like its pretty much everywhere atleast in my country!

 @xX_sauceboss_Xx  Naw for real the US is way behind like that would be nice here.

As a Rwandan, I am also happy

​ @thomas6129  tell you're brother's to stop coming in bulk to Uganda

 @thomas6129  as an American I’m happy for you being happy.

 @thomas6129  so pleased👏👏👏

Rwanda deserves a bright future and apparently the nation builders and population are all pulling together. Bravo.

Hey so have you seen these drones fly by?

Rwanda forever?

You should be proud of that facility and the people in it. What we watched was like something from the future !. The workers really looked like they were involved in their jobs, and the whole thing ran with smooth precision. If that was  being done here in New Zealand, and I saw our  people working so professionally at something so cutting edge, my goodness, I would swell up with pride !.
It is CRAZY how far our lives have come in just my 60 years.

Rwanda is beautiful.

You have every reason to be proud of your country. I hope to visit one day!! Much love from Norway 🇳🇴

 @GlowingEagle and probably too much love from the US🇺🇸

Yet again so proud to be Rwandan🥲🙌🏾🔥

 @kennziza3158  Why? Because your country is so behind that more advanced countries are using it as a testing ground for new technology?

Intelligence and innovation have no borders.  I'm happy for your country.

 @GoodForYou4504  And caring for others!

 @GoodForYou4504  Thank you, brother. That is greatly appreciated.

 @GoodForYou4504  zip line is an American company

This is the future the entire world needs.

It's truly impressive. Love from America

Looking for visiting your country one day

Rwanda is literally Wakanda :D im so happy for thoes people, im swiss and i have everything that i want to have an so on but seeing thoes rawandan people happy makes me really happy too and any time soon i will go visit this country. Thanks mark for this masterpiece of a video. <3

 @lolilol916  Rwanda has no part in making this, it's just used there...

​ @lolilol916  Wakanda was an imaginary place in a bad movie.

​ @lolilol916  Wakanda was an imaginary place in a bad movie.

As someone who has learned about zipline before thanks for informing people about this amazing company!

I would caution you that tech oligy always seems positive, but the down sides are often slower to appear and much more devastating than you originally would have agreed to.

Now that's form, function, and purpose. Nicely done. I agree with the medical use. 👍

That’s amazing.

👏

Very impressive!

I don’t exactly believe ya but ter’ Aussie’s win in an’ match of your’s

 @elvismorales7741  nice

Best wishes for you and all the people of Rwanda. I spent 3 months muhanga in 1995 on a peacekeeping mission and the people were amazing and will always have a place in my heart.

i hope Rwanda is doing well :thanksdoc:

Brother what is the secret to to that Rawandan optimism? I could use some of that in my life.

​ @elvan12581  we just know where we are from and want to be and do better for our selves

I live in Germany and I feel technologically inferior to Rwanda. Germany will never allow drone delivery because of safety concerns.

 @waynebimmel6784  They will.  They just won't be a first adopter.  Physical technologies take time to knock out all the issues and reduce risks.  We have become to enamored with the rate of change of software and computer processors.  This is just not possible in the normal iterative environment of physical components.  Give it time, you will see.  It won't be next year though.

 @waynebimmel6784  i am sorry do u live in Frankfurt bc in my city we have little robots delievering pacets

 @waynebimmel6784  I have lived in Germany and currently in the USA, I think this tech is so cool but the laws may restrict it alot

Yay Rwanda

Best of wishes

Why do they need so much blood?

 @thedevilsadvocate5210  Surgery for one and this is normal in world for hospitals, and other places, to need a lot of blood.

Rwanda foreva

Love Rwanda,  a beautiful country

Hi Rwandan, I think your country is pretty cool

It's amazing.
Imagine if governments gave everyone the basic necessities. Then people could focus on innovations like this.

I mean, Zipline is an American company. But it is definitely cool that they hire local Rwandan scientists and engineers to run the distribution centers.

As an Australian, I can’t believe this hasn’t been adopted to aid the rural communities in the Northern Territory and Western Australia. Hopefully someone important sees this and can help save the lives of those living rurally. Absolutely heart warming video

Im gonna be honest, this Video made me wanna visit Rwanda

 @rettichdergeile9361  You are welcome. Come visit any day my friend.

❤

This video gave me hope for our future. I had no idea so many advances were being made in your country, it makes me very happy too see

I have been wanting to take a trip there for a few years now.  I have heard so many great things about the tourism industry there as well.

the drone is not gonna be used his content shows revolutionary stuff that will be used in a distant future not now cause of different laws imagine one off the drones falling, imagine a malfunction of the drone causing a car incident, battery life, signal distance. yes the videos are cool but mark isn't in control of the government and I don't think he controls the laws of it.

As a bit of a geek, I am thinking Thunderbird 2.

Provided that it wasn’t invented by a hutoo.

In terms of technology, Rwanda is becoming more like wakanda.

 @driftliketokyo34ftw35  The people of Rwanda has literally no part in the technology...

It's not progress through technology. It's progress through spirit. A German engineering Professor told me recently that his ever fewer students have mostly lost faith human thriving and making the world better.

It's seriously amazing, I really wish where I am from would appreciate what surrounds them, or hopefully that will continue to realize the merit that can be found else where

Amazing. We once had a school project Namen run fur Rwanda. For every lap we donated 1€. We donated 3000€ for education. Just a random story which reminds me of Rwanda.

Bro happy to see your country's growth and and i am glad to know about the things Rwanda is doing to save gorillas

The place is beautiful

Wakanda is rwanda... So advance interms of other countries

what happens when one crashes

Hello. I am from Germany and so I grew up in a country that is known for its high quality products. Anyhow I'm very impressed with Zipline's solutions. As a hobby RC model pilot, I am very familiar with model airplanes and drones. What Zipline does with all that prototyping and testing is really next level! My respect goes to Abdul, his company and everyone involved in developing this clever solution. Nice to see that Rwanda is developing so positively. Congratulations to all Rwandans!

As an American I love to see how Rwanda has embraced the new autonomous drone technology. Being able to navigate unimpeded regardless of existing infrastructure truly saves lives.

Was that before or after you committed etnich cleansing?

Yea this is amazing!!!!!🤩🤩

Turns out Rwanda is some real life wakanda

 @laci272  it’s an American company

 Lan Nguyen  yes European tech .. as usual

Us whites from The US and Europe are more than happy to help you guys out :)

Thanks for posting your comment, my initial response to watching this video and being told there would be less motor vehicles on the road was actually, 'more jobs lost to working class people, so I stopped watching it. What you describe sounds very positive.💐

Both of the Rwandan people I know are like next level intelligent. Your country has so much abstract, engineering, natural and emotional intellect in your culture, I admire it. We need more Rwandans in general haha! 💚

As a Canadian, I want to move to Rwanda!

Providing vital medical supplies in rural Rwanda and making Americans even fatter than they already are.

You are among the next generation of a great country, Rwanda is INSPIRING!!

Very impressive!

Lol

ok

You should be proud my friend!! 👍🏻🤝🏻😄🐾🌈☮️🇨🇦

Are you thrilled the UK is going to send all their illegal immigrants there?

Wakanda forever 🤝

RWDA

you a slay

Your country is Inspiring

This is incredible

Let’s go rewandans

So, you have the internet in Rwanda?

You all are doing great work there Muhirwa! Best wishes from the USA!

Rwanda the next Wakanda

Technology!!! Wait till CBDC's arrive

Looks like an amazing country! Wanna visit!

Rwanda forever ✊

Be proud, you have an amazing county 😊

This technology is honestly amazing, you should be proud!!

I’m glad to hear

It's really cool to see this stuff happening

I remember seeing news stories about the Rwandan genocide back in 1994. I think it was on Channel 1 news which was news broadcast for students at the time.

your country looks like a wonderful place.  it makes me want to go be a part of it.

❤️❤️😊

Does it have a transponder for TCAS systems? 😬

Rwanda looks beautiful

I really hope that you guys can teach other countries to never give up hope for the future.

As a Rwandan enjoyer, I'm happy for you

You have a beautiful country ❤

Interesting

Rwanda FOREVER ✊✊

Rwanda forever!

Rwandan genocide

 @acheers  Am I missing something here? What do you mean?

bees!!!!!!

I want to come tour there. I will also bring soccer balls for all the little guys!

zipline wrote this comment 😂😅😂😅😂😅😂😅😂

Bri rwanda is so badass

Your country looks beautiful

Wow.. seriously . This intrigue me to look about Rwanda development ..

I love ur country

Yeah im happy Rwanda is healing and has started to go down a path towards a brighter future. And i only hope for the best for Rwanda and her people.

Some say it's an American company.. so what? They chose Rwanda - here's to Rwanda who are learning this technology as well as proving its use to the rest of the world - well done Rwanda 
(/^v^)/! ❤️🏆

You make the World proud! 👍❤️

AI generated

How do I get involved, would be a dream to help people

compared to my country, yours seems like science fiction

As someone who doesn’t know much about Rwanda, it seems like they got the perfect formula to create a healthy, happy, successful, incorruptible country, Im so happy for Rwanda

U mean as a Wakandan?

Happy to hear that, growing up I only heard about blood baths in Rwanda 🙏♥️

i was gonna move to singapore but then i see this and i'm like "i should move to rwanda like that might be better" so idk what i'm gonna do

Rwanda foreva

Bless you and your country

These are the people that the world needs

 Lan Nguyen  cool? I’m not sure what that has to do with anything tho? I know the founder is American, the original comment never even said the company was Rwandan, they said the technology has been HELPING Rwanda progress, not that Rwanda invented the technology

 @LiilYogurt  Everyone in the comments act like the people of Rwanda had ANY part of making these when they have not.

 @LiilYogurt  the entire video is portrayed in a way that would make people think that these people developed this.. it’s like that on purpose . As usual

Ever see a Zipline in your town?

Now I want to live there lol

Please help us too my fellow brother

So happy to see the progress in your country.  I wish to see similar progress in my country Pakistan 😊❤

It’s so great to see that there is still great things happening in the world despite the horrors.

Are you hutu or tutsi

I don't know much about your technology but I've been purchasing green coffee beans from Rwanda and roasting them.  Your coffe is fantastic.  Please deliver some beans via drone asap.


Thank you.

I didn’t know rwanda had youtube

 @hamptonl9191  they don’t

 @hamptonl9191  haha their only known means of transporting goods is still on top of their head

wing wong water water water! dirt water dirt!

As an American, I love seeing this technology in Rwanda! Rwanda can teach us a lot about community.

Rwanda is a miracle countrie. Glad to read this from someone for there. Wow. Congrats to your people and country. I just would wish my country will get in order and wellness like your . Blessings from Venezuela.

Before long, Rwanda will be catching up to the western world, and then perhaps surpassing after that.

Is Rwanda on track to becoming a real life Wakanda?

Wish we had something like this in Eastern USA

 @American_Southerner  it’s literally an American company.. their just using Rwanda as a Guinea pig . Rwanda didn’t create a single bit of this tech .

This is soo awesome 👏 , can’t wait to see this in Japan lol

W county 🫡

Learn to drive 🚜☝️🚜🚜☝️☝️🚜🚜☝️

Worded like a bot but I don't think you are haha

Very proud and appreciative of what our leadership has achieved/is yet to achieve that helps millions of Rwandans. #🇷🇼 for transformation.

Your country is like already way ahead of the whole universe in reagards to technology

It's absolutely amazing what you as a country have achieved in so little time. Such a progressive and healthy mindset!

As a British person I'm thrilled to see that too.

It was great to watch a video that demonstrated your country is embracing technology for such a positive purpose.

they say, the most personal is the most creative :)

We're celebrating those advancements along with you and 🇷🇼 Rwanda!

I am thrilled for your country ❤

​@Wayne Bimmel

Rwanda is also the world leader in electric motorbikes. There's five hubs in Kigali where 25,000+ motorbike-taxis swap out the locally built batteries; less pollution but also cheaper than the petrol-based equivalent mostly due to less failures (electric engines have fewer parts that can & will go wrong).

why do i feel i read this already without reading it?

why do i feel i read this already without reading it?

Provide evidence of your claims, now.

Because of nerds and inventions now we got cancers and sickness you’re doing a great job😂

As an American, I don't really give a ....

You should be very proud of your country… this is truly amazing. I only wish that we in the US had something this life changing to be proud of!

It is truly impressive!   I had no idea this was being used that.  Rwanda looks like a stunningly   beautiful country!

Muhirwa Richard can't believe how beautiful the countryside is I'm watching this video.

Want to go there

Are you Tutsi or Hutu?

The US is a third world country. Wishing Rwanda all the best.

I think only ghana and Rwanda are doing this

Capitalism works, if you let it.

TRUE but persecution and discrimination of people with disabilities and albinos is still a big problem.

Why doesn’t the hospital keep blood in it’s own premises?  If the zip line stores it it seems like the hospital could store it. I understand if it’s a remote village but not a hospital.

Is Rwanda as full of positivity as the video presents?

You NEVER KNOW where genius will show up.

as a Belgian i am happy to see that Rwanda is doing great

Sweet

You have wifi?

.

As a canadian i love your country after this video

To assistindo agora aqui do Brasil 🇧🇷 rapaz seu país tá sendo um orgulho, continuem.👏👏👏

😂

Guys, there's no need to bring countries down for which technology is better, and that's what makes countries interesting.

Rwanda seems like becoming the Wakanda in real life!

Im norwegian, and i know know that they are never going to allow this because (aspesially in Stavanger) someone will just abduct one of them

If never heard of your country but it sounds amazing

bro is this video really in Rwanda?  Ya'll got some big houses 

I think it's awesome; but I'm really impressed to see what's happening there HOWEVER you need some solar on those roofs ASAP

Who pays for the blood? In America getting blood transfusions cost more than the a average American makes in a few years.. Even though it's donated blood lol

The greatest advance has not been technological, it has been the collective mentality, you are convinced that knowledge benefits everyone. Congratulations to everyone in your country, you are proof that knowledge is the way. A big hug from Mexico.

Cool

Я живу в России у нас новые газовые камеры и лагеря 16:13 !

Sending love to all the people of Rwanda! I was only a child at the time yet when I saw the news on TV I was devastated and learned more empathy for others suffering. I am so glad that the people of Rwanda who survived were saved and that they have revived the spirit of innovation. Rwanda is creating more of the best bright future and may they keep paving the way more.

Desde México de verdad quisiera que la gente fuera más como ustedes,tienen una forma de ser muy buena 
Que buen sistema de drones y ayudas 🎉

Gambare onichan

❤❤

Go Rwanda

Make Rwanda great again

It truly is great to see how a small country is so advanced in technology

Same zipline is a cool delivery service

I'm not from Rwanda, and STILL I credit this software!

Long live the Tutsi they are the greatest people.

Вау❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤

Then what’s the capital

Rwanda looks awesome

This is one of the coolest things I've seen technology wise. Congrats Rawanda.
Literally so cool.

Did your phone go nuts after 1700 like notifications in a hour 😅

The world is watching and we are impressed ❤

 @draege626  we not  wef get losst

You sir, speak better english than most Americans.

I now must visit Rwanda. I’m proud of what your people have done coming from such a tragic past!

Massive glow up 💪

W country

As an American in a eurocentric world history class, I'm so happy to learn about your beautiful country

 @notting_spook  you should move there.

​ @notting_spook  Американец из какой страны? Америка - это ведь континет?

 @notting_spook  If you live in FL, pretty soon it won't just be eurocentric, it will be euro (and US) only. DeSantis doesn't want FL children to learn about the world and the wonderful people everywhere.

You are one of millions of people who are beautiful and are doing great work. Keep loving Each other and know that you can do anything

much love and respect to you and your people you have amazing engineers

​ @carlithocloutriguez5315  do you really think they engineer this lol

Your people are doing great work :)
Keep it up

​ @cherrydragon3120  you do know this is an American company they're just tried it out over there because of regulations and taxes

This is indeed amazing.

To be completely honest this is my first time hearing about Rwanda and it really feels like 1st world country

Didn't they invent the wheel in Rwanda?

Yea but they have had a lot of outside help not just people from Rwanda.

 @Jin-_-._.104  it always works like that

You guys have the best hotels 🏨

No we use cars here. This isn’t happening for real the guy just needs content.

 @BB-ed4om  it’s happening .. white Europeans went ther with their tech and trained them on using it

Rwanda Forevah

your country is dope

Love how you country has more efficient blood deliveries than the USA, glad to see the stereotype mold being broken

 @endleontiozae7061  no, no one is better than the US

This sounds like a chatgpt response

 @jonahgrigoryan  Oh, is this the new "Ok Boomer" stock response for children to use because their wit fails them ?.

Lol I thought this was a joke

Let us know when you get a delivery way outside of the 5g areas 😂.

How is it in Wakanda?

This sounds like a chatgpt comment

 @Timbotelli  Because it's concise and clear? Or are you just throwing shade for shade's sake?

We Americans have a lot to learn from Rwandans

Another great American company founded in Silicon Valley, changing the world.  Absolutely amazing. What a shining example of American exceptionalism - determined entrepreneurs, saving lives and helping people all around the world through the success of their dreams, engineering brilliance, and extraordinary hard work.   Hats off to the four founders of this great company!!!

Keller Cliffton
Keenan Wyrobek
Ryan Oksenhorn
William Hetzler

Go get some water

Lol 😂 next giant technological leap should be paved roads

 @hunterm4188  Why?  They don't need pavement there.  Just more cost.  Keep it simple is better.

 @hunterm4188  What an but_ head statement.

In Denmark. I feel very inferior of this.

Denmark was trying be a robotic city yet it is 10 times behind Rwanda.

I can’t wait to see Rwanda become one of the technologically advanced city in the world.

That city is even cleaner than my country.

​ @zainahmed4172 I don't think you've ever been to rwanda lol many people still drink from rivers

Wakanda wakanda!

 @griddymaster2478 Rwanda Forever.

It's an American company they just trying it out over there

​ @markovangelo  They are allowed to try it out over there.  In the West they would be buried in regulations 😅

Don't you love how they are pretending this is Rwandan technology this is really a clown world

I hate to break it to you, but Zipline is an American company.

 @CD3MC  he didn't say it was a Rwandan company

 @CD3MC  you need to read the initial comment again but this time read it properly.

 @CD3MC  your point?

Yeah. I think they are going to be very big

 @frostbite1994  I think Amazon will try to acquire them for no less then a billion dollars

 @frostbite1994  should i buy their stock if they go public

 @frostbite1994  that unfortunately didnt happen

I want to work for Zipline. Ever since I heard about them nearly 5 years ago

 @TheOneAndOnlyRandy  They have like  100+ open positions on their website. Why not apply?

 @TheOneAndOnlyRandy  but.. the whole point is they don't really need you.

​ @TheOneAndOnlyRandy  id suggest getting out there and doing something about it then...and no, you don't have to become an orphan

those moments with Abdul were also so wholesome, zipline seems like such a fun company

I remember that video, and thinking, "wow, what an amazing use of the technology, allowing them to work on the systems, iterate and refine, all while getting real world flight experience and helping people." With half a million successful flights under their belt, the technology is there. They've proven themselves.

I remember this video, no wonder zip line seemed like such a familiar company!

​@Jackson Avery 0

Yes! I remember that video - I was pumped, and sometimes wonder how they're doing, always assuming great, based on how solid their concept and application were.

One of my favorite parts is how zipline made actually quite and effective propellers for drones and then there is the MIT toroidal props that barely change anything.

 @benjaminjohnson6476  toroidal props are more efficient/powerful and marginally quieter. The zipline props are amazingly quiet but make no claim to more power in the same swept space. Notice how long they are?

​ @benjaminjohnson6476  toroidal props reduce tip turbulence, increasing efficiency. They are quieter, but that was a happy side bonus.

I remembered that video, and it was fascinating to see how far they've come.

Ah...it was your video i saw about them. This is a nice follow up.

yooo

Yeah, so nice to see they are going strong, and expanding.

Aahh thats where I already knew zipline from, as a loyal viewer of your channel!

I think I remember your video.

its an interesting capability could be useful with military logistics and crisis situations

After watching this video --- I am very jealous of any kid graduating college with an aerospace engineering degree --- this drone stuff is gonna be HUGE in the coming years and will likely be larger than electric autos if you think about the millions of uses for them

i saw your video! it was great!

I saw that video by Real Engineering and my thought was "Zipline needs to expand, world wide! This is going to be the future."

idk but

i swear i've seen this video before already, but it was from you!

Great video. Yours was the first time I ever heard about it. Cool to see their progress.

I remembered watching a video about them a while ago! And it was yours!!! You did a great job showcasing them.

@RealEngineering the OG

Omg please do a more detailed video of the drones

Seems like they will become big

@Real Engineering I remember your video! If anyone is interested in a total deep dive into how the system works and why it has gained so much momentum in such a short time, be SURE to watch his video. I am so incredibly inspired by you and Mark Rober by showcasing the amazing people creating these systems. You will never know how many people you caused to invest it or raise awareness for this company. Think about the lives that were saved by your video giving them publicity. Thank you.

Yeah it's how I know this company. It was from your video about them.

I knew I'd seen this somewhere before.

@Real Engineering  That video really stood out to me, even among your consistently exceptionally great content quality.

yes I have seen ur video years ago.

So I need 100K to invest in them?

my mind blended the two and the entire video I had a profound sense of dejavu 🤣😂

I knew I saw them somewhere quite a while ago

I was trying to think of where I seen a video about this years ago ! Thanks for reminding me it was Real Engineering !

no wonder it sounded familiar, i think i watched that video

they are really helping out people from around the world, arent they? and they have super unique inventions as well

Incredible bit of tech ...

Yes, seen that video years ago and was incredibly blown out with your story then!

Amazing Invention, amazing story

BTW, Abdul is the true hero of this story. What a human. What a story.

NUGGET!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Lol

‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎E

I remember watching that.

I remember seeing your video and to this day I think I think these guys have one of the coolest job in the world. I should probably apply there 😅

I love your video. Absolutely incredible what Zipline does, solving real, life saving problems not just delivering snacks.

That's really cool to hear! Zipline is definitely an impressive company with a great mission. They have made a huge impact in Rwanda and are now expanding to other countries. It's great to see more attention being brought to their work.

Do they have a stock, or are they not on the financial market listed?

 @mam0lechinookclan607  I checked around, still private and not publically listed unfortunately.

 @marth6270  
I think it's been demonstrated otherwise. It was clear back then, and they've only been solidly growing since.  (But for deep, critical thinkers, it was fairly clear 5 years ago, already.)

Amazing work business is booming

Yes you guys are the real deal

I was trying to recall where I first heard about this company, now I remember it was your video

Clicks straight through to Real Engineering video on Zipline in Rwanda...

I knew I saw them before!

So that's why Zipline sounded so familiar

I remember bits and pieces of that video!

Saw that 2 😁

Cool

Ñ😊

Yeah that why this video felt like a re-upload. Your video was a great,as always

OMG, you guys totally need to collaborate!

There's new updates you can watch an interview between the founder of Zipline and the president of Rwanda a couple of days ago

Your subed to the 2 johnies yup

I really want to know the principle of rotor aerodynamics in 1 minute and 27 seconds, it looks incredible！I have also followed your channel for a long time and like your videos very much！

Yoooooooo

Hey, it's Real Engineering, another of my most favorites!

Gotta say it , "Real Recognises Real ! "

Thanks for this comment! I was trying to remember where I first heard about Zipline. Now I can stop wracking my brain about where I first watched that startup video on them years ago.

0.0

Saw that years ago. Amazing! And proves: never give up but improve!

Being used by the world parasites

I remember seeing this video around-abouts when I was starting my aeronautics degree. I've graduated now and it's awesome to see where they are now!

Real Engineering! I remember that video! Great one too like all your stuff!

yeah i remember watching that video it was so cool

I’ve seen that video! It was awesome!

amazing

Heyyyyy Wassup, i'm watching your channel

If at first you don't succeed, call it version 1.0

Wow.. Unbelievable 👍👍👍

Hello

And i watched that video alongside many other people

When he took the trip to Rwanda I immediately thought of your video from like 2 years ago on the subject.

christianch
mcclure
kieyol

And 70mph is incredibly impressive for a drone that light.

tech is always the future. its the only path the future has.

Honestly, a truly innovative creation! but, it would also take away alot of work from our people in the delivery industry. Sadly, as the technology expands and advances, it slowly eats up human work.

great. now stop showing off

Next video on mye list now😁👍

Tessss

Its ganna be very goofy in o h i o

I've seen your video

Can’t wait for just teleporting food like Star Trek

And what happens in rain, snow, hale, windy areas, areas with people that got guns, cause we know bottoms of airplanes are often shot at.

This only works because they don’t have air traffic

 @1966bluemax  think about what you said again

это жостко мужик

Now they have TWO depots in Rwanda

Why don't they use mini blimps?

Only one ranwand franc is only 0.00074 cents USD, with the growing economy that .00074 cents will be more than a dollar in a future

Real civil engineer should have been here

Critical question, though: would they interfere with air traffic (of any sort, be it private, commercial, ordefense-related), and how? I'd forsee them posing a similar threat as bird strikes. Zipline and the FAA really need to work out a system so that they don't pose an additional threat. This could also be an interesting opportunity for the DoD/USAF/AFRL/AFIT to support a solution, both for civilian and defense usage.

yes

OMG my favorite youtuber
(sorry Mark)

first

It's gonna replace Amazon shipping by 2050.

Hey Real Engineering!

Yeah

Because of nerds and inventions now we got cancers and sickness you’re doing a great job😂

 @babyjesse963  cancers and sickness existed before nerds and inventions

Yeah yeah you heard them before they were famous. We get it hipster 😂

Just like many videos in youtube, only tells the bright side of the story, but ignoring other sides (e.g. limitations of the current solution, challenges in reality). Many videos just show the product and make it sounds super amazing, like it will be taking over the entire world, but we will never see that day actually comes. An example is, some videos said "Tesla Valve" has an amazing design, blah blah blah, but in reality, no one actually using it. Why? many videos won't go through that. In reality, there are other way better solutions, but those solutions sounds boring so no one in youtube will make a video for that. Yes, welcome to the boring reality.

This makes no sense and is not feasible, do you realize that every deliverer should have such a plant to launch drones? Or you have to factor the time of any private store to first transfer a package to the zipline platform, which also means that the same exact number of cars will need to move to one of the closest zipline platforms.

 @DS-nv2ni somebody didn't watch the video 😅

What's to prevent a prankster from grabbing onto that zipline and wrapping it around the nearest fence post, lamp post, etc?

​ @manofsan  Nothing, but they have a camera, the exact location and the acount from where they did the order. Since you cant hear them and they are only in reachable distance for like 5 seconds, it will be pretty difficult to just randomly grab a drone if you arent the person that did the order and know when it arrives.

​ @manofsan  what stops anyone from committing any crime? And why would you destroy the drone when it is delivering something to you, the line only comes down when delivering something directly to your home lmao

​@manofsan  it looks like they are delivering to private addresses, and to back-yards, not front yards, which A: limits the number of people who could access the drone as it delivers to just the residents of the house, and B: allows Zipline to blacklist certain recipients if foul play occurs, and potially allow them to chase down fees for damaged drones. Secondly, the zipline seems to only be deployed for long enough to put down the parcel. That's not actually very much time to interfere with the delivery.

Even so, it would be impossible to completely eliminate the possibility. But the drones should be able to make an emergency landing if they detect the cable is stuck, or in the worst case, they still have a parachute on each drone.

They aren't the future.

 @jamesfehr2071    How do you know, crystal ball? 🔮

self promotion , I see RE on other channels comments somular things, vivers are dwindling ?, Make better up your standards.

​ @ventusprime  who hurt you, kid?

 @ventusprime  I take it English isn’t your first language.

maternal mortality rate not mortality rate overall

You’re talking about one country, not anywhere else

what an amazing speech .Continue with those encouraging speechs.

Boring

That was an overarching percentage number. Realistically how many supplies are needed on-sight for birthing? Some yes but not enough to improve that 88% statistic. I think that is an overall healthcare reform and the drones are an added benefit that helps.

 @writerconsidered  honestly Rwanda looked like a European country 😐

Is it how it really is ? They seem like they've progressed a lot

Western Australia area = 2.646 million km² , Rwanda area = 26,798 km² . With WA being nearly 100 times the size of Rwanda, coverage is the challenge. But with better battery tech, I think we'll see this in very remote areas in the future.
For further reference the Tokyo metropolitan area alone is about half the size of Rwanda.

​ @jimgineered   Note that Zipline is operating in Ghana and Nigeria as well. Bigger countries.  So they had to adapt to the terrain

​ @jimgineered  unless you adapt a pony express type system, transfer from one drone to the next charging station where another drone passes the baton.  Drone stations every one hundred miles or so in radius all solar powered and waiting.  You wouldn't even send them round trip it would be a continuous loop of ready to go emergency vehicles.

 @jimgineered  you can have multiple deployment/stocking centers!

Australia is a big country

 @Speed_Racer22  So is the U.S.A

Also as an Australian I'm not surprised this hasn't been adopted yet for the simple fact that our government seems to hate new and  progressive ideas and technologies like this.

@Ayden Toth  Apparently it's in the works in future.  But for specific situations ( military in emergency disaster situations)

Came to say the same thing. Also some places in west and far north QLD too.

cheaper to move them closer to a larger population

need drones with a range of at least 500-1000 miles to even set up a dispatch center those ones they're flying is only seventy-five miles. Parts of North America and western Australia will have to wait for the tech to get better before they can send stuff to the middle of nowhere in a few hours without it costing an arm and leg.

 @pdxeddie1111  not really, look at the Pony Express, back when America could only be crossed by horseback they set up a system to deliver mail faster than every before by riding horses short distances and handing over to the next, if each drone can go 50-100km you could set up a volunteer system between cattle stations, towns, fire brigades.
Each location would only need 1 person on standby to changeover the drone when it arrives and it could be back in the air within minutes

Would come in handy for snake bites

 @TinaKins87  not to mention during floods

What a beautifully crafted, essential story. One of my favorite videos to date. Excited to see more of this technology adopted worldwide.

Don’t forget companies are more interested in making money than saving lives, which is why it’s food

As an Australian I absolutely agree!

Absolutely, for sure we'd need multiple centers, but just having them will save more lives then not having them.

@joshua

As a Western Australian, the obvious impediment is distance
In a city with a 5 minute delivery from a cafe, this technology is obvious 
When I lived on a sheep station, we just planned our shopping 
Fast food and impulsive shopping is just not viable in a remote environment, while forward planning is not that difficult a feat to achieve

No money in cures

 @mg659er  
OP you are responding to is suggesting a service delivery model 
Are you a bot?

So many unanswered questions……

same

I wonder what the original Australians think

Ay I’m in WA too but in perth where are you?

You guys have remote areas that should adopt this. Especially with the deadliest creatures ever living amonst you.

lol @ someone important.. Bahahaha  Hilarious

yes yes, there 2.23 kilometers between the distance between most australian urban areas

 @warmblooded8055  Only two and a quarter KM between urban centres? !! ???

it's not cost effective for anything other than the purpose portrayed here. there's a premium to life saving equipment and medicine that the government is willing to sponsor. everyday consumer items? not so much. door dash? even less of a priority

 @cagneybillingsley2165  its still cheaper, faster, and better for the enviroment

 @cagneybillingsley2165  not every solution is perfect, but essentially trying ways to fix the small problems might just be effective in the long run. It doesnt have to be effective too, they can learn from their findings or engineer better solutions. Failure is a part of learning and making advancements.

Your own life is just as important, no matter how much more someone else suffers and endures. Take care of yourself, king. Things won't just be automatically better just because someone else survived worse. You can do this.

​ @Vhargon  I'm sure he knows this. It just puts things into perspective.

He is a true inspiration to all humankind --- the power of innovative engineering to change lives!

 @kerzytibok3211  what exactly innovative he has engineered?

Hey. You're not alone. Know that.

 @guesswhat-chickenbutt  Yes I know, but this guy didn’t invent this system. He only operates it.

Yup. Same. Been feeling bad and that can turn into self indulgence. Abdul gave me a figurative kick up the butt and reminder: never give up and be of service to others by being the best you can be in your sphere of influence.

"Zipline designs and tests its technology in Half Moon Bay, California. The company assembles the drones and the technology that powers its distribution centers in South San Francisco. Zipline performs extensive flight testing in Davis, California, and operates distribution centers around the planet with teams of local operators."

Another bot. This comment section has more bots than I've ever seen on youtube

 @lauralishes1 on top of that youtube bumps up the algorithm so he is shown on the front page when it's all BS

If there is a Heaven, there is a special place waiting for him.

Ok Rick

Indisputably amazing

tHE COMPANY IS OWNED BY A TEXAN NAMED JIM DAVIS WHO PAYS MARK ALOTTA MONEY

Yeah I honestly wish it was a monthly series haha

Competing for glitterbomb tbh

I’ve seen you so many times

This video is a bitter sweet since the technology both helps society and extinguishes a major job description - food and small package delivery driver.

 @Mrelectric423  well someone has to put the packages in the drone and there will be a lot of drones that need to be launched simultaneously

 @Mrelectric423  So like a horse and buggy driver, a century later.

Guys zip line is an American company and no Abdul didn’t create the drones. They were in charge of the Rwanda depot though. I think what he’s saying is that Abdul isn’t the one to be give the inspiration

😅😅😅😅

I don't get it Zipline is a pure American company founded by someone else, Abdul didn't invent or build those drones what am i missing? Zipline is an American company that designs, manufactures, and operates delivery drones. The company operates distribution centers in Rwanda, Ghana, Japan, the United States, and Nigeria, with signed agreements to begin service in Cote d'Ivoire and Kenya.

​ @4ll4ll  He says in the video that Abdul was the very first zipline employee in Rwanda.

 @4ll4ll i believe it’s because ziplines biggest market is rwanda its where they first started to do the drones the US actually came waaay later rwanda played a big part in how they service rural areas you know how they plan it and stuff rwandan division of their company also likely made massive contributions to the company to drone development their plans ect to give a example how important zipline is to rwanda and how important rwanda is to zipline outside of kegali 75% of blood deliveries are made by zipline

​ @4ll4ll  I'm curious about this as that is very different from the story presented in the video and what Rwandan people say in the comments. Where did you find this information?

Ditto!

Same. I'm so inspired

Glad I wasn't the only one. The inspiration he gives to those kids is awesome.

@Draken0023    You put my exact thoughts into words much better than I could have.

i cant agree anymore

 @austinstrother2558  Did you mean “I couldn’t agree more”?

One of the best companies today

 @jediapc226  tessala

​ @jediapc226 Nah Tessala better

Well, u can get a wallet sized photo of him for when you're on the Frontlines of WW3

They were already valued at 1.3 billion dollars in 2019. Not a small startup anymore. But exposure from Mark will surely still help.

 @thorwaldjohanson2526  they probably hold most of that value in the fact that they are building for the future, it may not be worth that at this very moment, but based on projections and the fact that they've got VERY strong proof of their concept means that their valuation is sky rocketed (pun not intended)

​ @thorwaldjohanson2526  it be awesome to help them expand

I had no idea of Zipline before watching this.

"real engineering" made a video about them a few years ago, it's a more traditional engineering channel that has taught me a lot.

True, never heard oh them before.

Their technology would be super useful in many "undeveloped" western countries too !!!

Speak for yourself, I have been a big fan of Zipline for years.

 @lawrencefrost9063  I never said that everyone didn’t know about them, just most of us probably didn’t know. Sorry for the misunderstanding though

It’s simple, because the legacy media in America concentrate on doom and gloom to keep people scared so they keep their tv tuned to their news channels. Of course there’s more but it would take a book to list and explain the problems with the legacy media.

In America pharmacy id not about saving lives, its just another business.

cheers, dr leon

I'm confused.... so what's YOUTUBE?

You'll find stuff in IEEE Explore, but that's mainly academic papers. I agree, though - the World is backwards.

You just haven't been paying attention

u need to realise that these delivery jobs make up so many jobs

 @Shortstories236 jobs don’t matter when the industry is ruining the planet. People can find more jobs, we can’t fix the planet

are you okay? its just a dang business

Mine too🥰
If It was possible, I wish we could have 2 videos per year.
Like... One every 6/7 months 😆
But It would probably be really difficult to have even one more video fit in to the year schedule 🥹

 @Mih_Soares  He does liek 10 videos a year, just most of them are just ridiculous stuff.

Mark does a great job with the "quality over quantity" mindset

Hello bhai sahab kaise ho

😂😂😂 OMG

Test

Verified person ⁉️

nice one

Why don't they use mini blimps?

His ambulance idea at the end is basically trauma team from Cyberpunk haha, dropping in to scoop the victim up, that would be incredible. Would only need the heavily armed paramedics in a war zone thankfully

Gut feeling tells me Abdul will be a very wealthy engineer soon --- Amazon or Google will buy Zipline and then he gets a ton of stock options

 @fredwerza3478  Agreed, but I fear when that happens the spirit and culture of the company will be lost.

 @fredwerza3478  it’s an American company bud .. we just took it there and are basically using them for testing phases. Their using European tech , as usual

This is great imagine how easier and smarter these can be.

 @_duckey  Verified person⁉️

Verified person⁉️

Verified person⁉️

@m Verified person⁉️

nice to see you here

Learn to drive❤

Because of nerds and inventions now we got cancers and sickness you’re doing a great job😂

Abdul has one one of the most incredible stories I’ve heard. Crazy how he can bring so much optimism after such a terrible event

This would actually be really useful here in Canada.  We have a lot of remote communities in the northern 80% of the country that could really use rapid delivery of essentials.

3:33 ah yes safely bouncing off solid ground😂

As an Australian, I can see this being useful in the outback, for something like emergency delivery of polyvalent, or other medical supplies. Could also be a supplement to something like Royal Flying Doctors Service. Or a delivery to a remote station that gets cut off due to flooding.

Dude, this video made me cry about how crazy it is when a whole community comes together what can be done in such a short amount of time. Just looking into Rwanda to see how far they've come in the past 20 years is absolutely insane. I know a lot of people want to paint a lens of how bad the world can be, but I really see that across the globe we are making huge leaps and bounds to a better world for all in the future. Great job guys!

To Rwandans:
I had no idea how much positive change is happening in your country. I am so impressed with the patriotism and the way your countrymen are working together. The monthly work days are especially impressive. When an entire country donates a day of work every month- so much money is saved and so much camaraderie happens! You are a shining example of what each country should try to emulate! ❤

This is so AMAZING! This is the kind of stuff that gets me excited about working in the autonomous drone industry!

Such a great video. Tears mate. As ex Australian military, we were deployed during the horrific genocide as part of the UN. Many soldiers have PTSD from what they saw. I’m so happy that the country has rebuilt in this way. Thanks Mark for this incredible story.

Props to Abdul, what a genuinely great person. Seriously to grow up in those struggles and make it out on top just to help an insane amount of people is just amazing. Much love

Abdul seems like such an amazing and kind hearted human. The fact he turned the absolutely awful situation he and his family had to deal with into doing whatever he can to help people is so inspiring ❤

Now my fries may not be cold.

Its amazing how innovations like this have been out for years but it baffels me how I've never even heard of this until today. Thank you, Mark, for sharing what is truly important for us to know.

I’d never heard of Zipline before, and now I want to 1) invest in Zipline and 2) visit Rwanda! What an exciting and amazing enterprise. Thanks, Mark, for telling us all about it. So impressive.

This is one of the most impressive things I've seen in a long time, especially the story behind the drones.  It really gives me hope in humanity.

Imagine your mc Donald drink dropping from the sky on to your head😂😂😂

As an Aerospae major, I had a lecture on exactly this topic last year. This looks really impressive and I'm happy to see that they are tackling some of the issues that I was presented in my lectures. Keep it up!

I lived in Rwanda for 5 years and moved 9 months ago, and seeing this blows my mind. It’s Incredible that I’ve actually seen this happen in a place you would never except, and I’m so proud of it. Keep climbing!

I couldn't be happier to see Mark Rober exploring my home country, Rwanda. As a fan who always enjoys his content, it is truly special to witness him showcase our unique culture. Thank you for bringing attention to the beauty of Rwanda, Mark!

I like the medical ambulance idea.

Mark, this video should win some sort of award. It touches on so many positive things. First, it was produced so well. It was engaging and inspirational. It highlighted brilliant engineering and described the process from concept to prototype to solution. It was entertaining. It makes me want to visit Rwanda, It demonstrated the resilience of a country besieged by terrible civil war. I could go on and on. This video gives me hope for mankind and was a breath of fresh air. It was an escape from all the political nonsense going on and negativity we are exposed to 24/7. Thank you again for this video.

It would be interesting to know what kind of support he got after that traumatic event. Whatever technique was used, should be used more often. Typically children suffering such events would develop mental issues instead of success stories like this.

@zach w diamonds develop under tough conditions.

That scar he got on his head changed him into a genius.

I dunno how a guy can be chopped on the skull by some maniac with a machete and then turn that event into motivation to be a drone engineer and innovator!

im just wondering how well it can handle the cold

 @Bananabob39  Electronics generally like cold. Hail would be another thing though.

​ @Bananabob39  probably just make a few changes to adjust for it and it would be fine. Engineers solve many problems that seem impossible but when you look at every possible way to solve something they will find one.

 @Bananabob39  They'd probably be stored in at least a room temp environment and if they needed an onboard heating device to help it make the trip I don't think that would be too energy dependent that it couldn't make a trip.

So true 🇨🇦❤

Here in Australia too

I think they'd probably have to go farther sense Canada is so much larger and even more spread out population wise.

 @egancurry  going longer distances is easier for drones since they can go in one straight direction

very small items only probably

We have this already.  $FLT

Yeah but you get snow storms so how would this little baby drone survive in Canadas weather conditions, did you think about that?

@xBlustone  Yeah, I have indeed, snow storms happen but they're not usually so bad that a more powerful drone couldn't fly in them. And if it's the worst snow storm, (maybe a couple days a year) then it is still better to have the tech to bring it to the outer cities every other day of the year than to not have the tech at all.

 @Bluestone0001  We dont have snow storms every single day. It would be the same as a heavy rain storm. And if the weather is too bad just wont be able to fly until the weather changes like anywhere else in the world.

snake or funnel web venom? is that too stereotypical cause i don't live in australia

I think they will need to work on the range before the outback will see it but it’s an exciting prospect!

 @Reindeer_jay  True, but all you need is a bigger drone to provide increased range - they've already solved all the necessary engineering challenges.

That's what l was thinking too. Imagine being able to drop anti-venom for example as needed within a few minutes.

tyranny of distance might rule these out.

I thought Australia is already testing?

RFDS would love this stuff. I'm sure a long-range version would be able to get 500km's easily with a bigger battery

engineering will solve this....I was already thinking the exact same thing. If it's an emergency then a bigger range is needed, if not an emergency but still critical just like the refueling planes keep the fighter jets fueled up I'm sure we could come up with a solution to extend the range!

or medical supplies to the battlefield ;)

In a place like the Australian Outback, could solar cells be added to the exterior to help cover additional distance? Solar tech is getting smaller and lighter, more efficient and cost effective all the time. Could be possible now, if not in the near future.

Genocides like this could leave a huge scar on the community they were affected, just to watch their families and children get slaughtered during the Rwandan CIvil War. Huge bravery and respect for those who were able to get through all the hardships and forging ahead of a brighter and revolutionizing society that is Rwanda.

Same😭😭😭

We crave community, we crave being together..

It's western tech, Rwanda has no part in it. It's just used there...

 @Nahmate1337  was talking more on the community coming together to clean up their streets and build infrastructure, not the drone part...

 @Nahmate1337  Stop being so negative... Nobody cares if you have a negative outlook on the world. Let people be happy for other people.

Thank you its truly a pleasure to recieve such a message from other members of wide and diverse countries

@Wemple’s Temple 29

In life the only thing permanent is change.

It's decades of humanitarian aid, the people have maybe contributed 5% of the changes

my uncle was an air force nurse and was in Rwanda and is now retired. while he wont talk about what happened over there i know enough to be aware. i am a nurse myself now and thank you for representing Australia in the toughest conditions. may you live in peace in our sun burnt country.

Mr White, this will make the delivering of "goods" so much easier!

Thank you for serving our country way back when, as an Australian I appreciate you

I didn't know we sent any diggers, thanks mate.

 @thelukesternater  2/4 Royal Australian Regiment. Battalion did two tours.

 JackAubreyy  you've misread the post. He's not talking about countries or silly misplaced "national pride" but positive effects... you need to get some perspective.

I think you're missing the point of genocide. It's easy to rebuild after genocide. Who is going to argue with you?

Where would the world be today, if he hadn't survived the atrocities he faced.  How many lives has he saved, because he lived?  This is the butterfly effect in real life.

 @ElementofKindness  he didn’t create a single part of this tech. This is American company .. aka European technology

hearing his story makes me cry. he really is a great guy.

From tragedy to triumph he is an amazing person! Just the part about learning to fix MRI machines from youtube videos was impressive, but the drone program has made him a globally recognized genius. He did what others said was impossible. Abdul is a national hero!

 @DonariaRegia  hate to break it to ya bud but Abdul didn’t create a single part of this technology, this is an American company.. aka European technology. also this country participates in brutal forced child labor .

​ @DonariaRegia   True that. Except there are not " MRI" machines around hospitals ( just a few handful big hosp can afford it) but the story still inspiring

Abdul story has some similarities to naruto, i had never thought  it can be real

 @thorin3998  Abdul didn’t create a single part of this technology.. just sayin

Zipline is an American company that designs, manufactures, and operates delivery drones. The company operates distribution centers in Rwanda, Ghana, Japan, the United States, and Nigeria, with signed agreements to begin service in Cote d'Ivoire and Kenya. Abdul is just a story to capture your emotions

 @4ll4ll  yeah. "The Truth" has become flexible

Abdul come closer, back off abdul

Funny, years ago, I would have said he was smart to have gone to Harvard and Stanford, now I figure it was a handout for dei, and he probably just knows someone here

Well, technically speaking, his family did not have to deal with it. At least not for too long.

 @janbernad4729  What is wrong with you?

 @janbernad4729  you have a macabre sense of humor --- making a joke about somebody's family being hacked to death with machetes

My yt feeds are filled with crap, mark only makes me sane here

Why doesn’t the hospital just store the blood? Problem solved

 @likemike751  because it requires much more electricity and equipment, and guess what Rwanda just doesn't have those kind of resources yet

 @likemike751  their jsut being used as Guinea pigs by an American company

I agree. How is not world wide news?

 @dh-c1717  it’s an American company.. aka European technology

 @dh-c1717  lack of peoples interest probably.

They did a full documentary about this years ago….they were one of the first companies using drone tech this way….it’s awesome that they are still going strong…..👏👏👏👏👏

Well, trends are weird. So Mark putting light on it makes us know about it

Once it gets deployed commercially you can bother paying attention

It’s a private company, can’t buy shares of it

yeah same

100% this

I wish there was a way to donate to them. I would easily send 5 bucks.

Everyone deserves some hopeful thoughts nowadays.

Ditto! I could not have said it as well.

Yeah Im also amazed this is a brilliant literary problem solver

i want to be a cook now, but watching this makes me wanna go back to engineering lol

So if you got pregnant when you moved you wouldve given birth now

 @bucketotter6737  bro😂

It is always a great thing when content creators use their platform to showcase different parts of the world and cultures that may not be well-known to others. It can lead to greater awareness, understanding, and appreciation for diverse cultures and communities.

Your traffic lights are brilliant! A countdown would be awesome to use while driving. 👍

Rwanda seems like such a happy community and they deserve the amount that the economy is rising!

Also, have u heard of this company before?😊

Exactly my thoughts, stated so much better than I could. This is a very important presentation of excellent technology, purpose, people, and hope for a nation.

Zipline should win an award

Yes! So well said!

Felt exactly the same

I totally agree.

couldn't have said it better myself. watching this video makes me wish i was a part of it all, so much better than what i see on a daily basis, for once i wasnt thinking about working some miserable 8 hour job for the rest of my life while everything around me is complete depression. instead i saw something and somewhere full of positivity and inspiration, full of life and nice people who arent the idiotic people im surrounded with, all trying to make a difference and improve. imagining that being my life seems like a fairy tale

Expressed what I thought Presidentially.

I could feel the excitement and pride of the kid who showed his model to Abdul, and I was so pleased to see that Abdul found joy in helping him. One generation to the next is how a society grows.

Mark, your channel is a big part of why I wanted to be an engineer but this really takes the cake.  I'm a year and a half out from graduating and I can't wait to enter the work force as an engineer.

As much as I love watch Mark Rober videos.....that dude who lost both his parents and all of his siblings as a child and still turned out to be a successful person, is like a hero to me. I wish I was a strong as he is. I can't imagine losing everything and everyone and still coming out ahead. Props to him. He is the definition of what a true success story looks like.

bro had a vision

11:20 ayo his hand...chill mark 🥲

I am a materials scientists by training, but, I have never been so amped up to enter into engineering/robotics so much. This is utterly inspirational! Bravo, Mark! Bravo Zipline! Too deep!

As a Rwandan who was just working on a project of optimizing drone delivery routes a few weeks ago, it's shocking how much this video spoke to me. Your videos are so uplifting and inspirational, it's inebriating! I'm gonna ride this high for a week!

What I love about being a little mechanic is that other people watch mechanics videos they think it’s boring but interesting to us 👍🏻

In a world with so much discouraging crap happening, something like this story is a really nice change of pace. Thanks, Mark.

What a terrific video, Mark!    My son has worked at Zipline for a number of years and the work they do is so inspiring!   Thanks for giving them a well deserved spotlight!

Mark's new videos always bring interesting scientific and technical information

We're gonna see some real 'angry birds' someday.

As an American living in Rwanda, i love this country, the technology, the people, the experiences. Everything is just amazing, energetic, and beautiful,  i have seen the zipline drones flying overhead, but never thought to much of them. I love that Rwanda is getting more news coverage and is viewed in a positive way!

I am absolutely blown away with the individuals involved in this project. Abdul is an inspiration for so many including myself.

Thanks so much for the shout out, Mark! We are excited about what Zipline can do for food delivery but also the environmental benefits that come with such amazing technology. We are huge fans and love your videos!

Some of the best content made on the internet. Inspiring

Known about this company for years. Was always happy to hear they exist, but disappointed they aren't everywhere in the world. Too awesome to be limited to their current size. I hope they can expand much more soon and do this everywhere.

This is one of my favorite videos you ever made. Going to college with students from Rwanda who also survived the genocide and hearing the stories they endured is heartbreaking. It is wonderful to see how this country has really rallied around improving and the graduates coming back to make a difference. What a wonderful piece.

Cool to see you talking about Zipline.

Hey Mark, i have been watching your videos for quite many years now, but i never see this one, 
Thank you for visiting our beautiful country

Nice! Follow your dreams and don’t give up!

Congratulations!

Best of luck and hopefully you design future drones!

same bro but 1 year and 1/2 in

And the bit about his scar on his head from the same machete, thats some avenger lore type ish.

your opening sentence is invalid and not needed.

he's batman

 @lucastheil5096  No, I'm Batman...

😅😂😊

😂😂😂

Hahahah

Lmao the kid almost lost his arm 😂

Haha "uplifting"

Can you imagine trying to do this in the USA in the here and😮 now with all the rules regulations and all the permits you’d have to pay to keep the bureaucrats happy

And if it means lives being saved, I dont really care about flying drones

The good news is reporting on discouraging crap is the easiest way to get views. There are way more Abouls in the world than the news and algorithms would have you believe.

 @MarkRober  when I was an engineering student, solutions like this were so inspiring and felt so achievable. Then you graduate, work for a while and I think it makes you jaded.
But videos like this remind me of that innovative fire that burns in every engineer's heart. Thanks for inspiring both the future and the older engineers.

 @MarkRober  :thanksdoc:

 @MarkRober  thanks for inspiring videos like this, Mark!

😎

The workds 👍 awesome

Wait till you find out that this company lobbied and bought all the airspace on your private property. Want a hobby drone? Or to fly RC aircraft? Nope. You'll go to federal prison now

 @krotchlickmeugh627  could you provide any evidence, please?

​ @krotchlickmeugh627  hope to see you there

Give him props from alot of us. They're doing amazing work

 @cherrydragon3120  I don't think they need extra props, they have to have plenty of spares. 🤫

You must be proud of your son.  He is working at a company that will change the world for the better.

Except it is a commercial, not science because it delivers nothing new intellectually.

@Merci Politely Engineering is applied science

Ủa anh Mango :D

‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎E

First

Fr

original comments from random people are not very informative

Fr

yes

@Merci Politely yeah, i was not contradicting you, just added more context around the relationship between science and engineering

yup

Thanks for stating the obvious

it aint scientific information hes reviewing someones creation

It's engineering, not science.

 @Warentester  you can use science in engirneering dude

Thats one of the few things i've seen which is ACTUALLY green... less cars on the road has multiple benefits... pollution. oil.. time.. traffic.. people... so many benefits.. Well done for taking a chance on this.

Mazel tov 🎉

Is Amazon using Zipline?

​ @mymia1027  how would they know lol

As the system continues to prove itself on the small scale, others will take notice and implement the same idea, even if zipline does not.

The bigger they get, the less awesome they will become. Because that awesomeness will be consumed by corruption. What I hope to see is that others will be inspired by their ideas and develop their own versions of the same thing, creating a diverse market that is not controlled by a single or a few companies.

Now that Mark has shown this I feel like investing for there to be stations in India, or at least selling the idea of these emergency medicine carriers to hospitals and pharmacies. India like rawanda has lots of villages as well, so it should be able to transition markets

It's awesome

This invention isn't amazing it will ruin take delivery drivers jobs and make less work for more people yet again . Soon everyone will lose their jobs due to these robots.

Lots of bots on here

Nice

Nice video

👍

Nice video

Super

Hi

very nice

👍

Nice video

it was really great 👍

Very nice

coooool:hand-pink-waving::face-blue-smiling:

Nice video

Nice

Nice

Very nice

Nice the video

Nice Video

Nice

I'm so glad it's still around! First saw it 4 years ago on the "Real Engineering" channel.

Yessssss

14:30 le cow : Let me in the video mooooooooo!!!!

You cannot overstate how strong Abdul is to transcend what he experienced, what most of us are so privileged we can't even imagine, and turn it to a positive force to change his country. This is my new favorite person

2:22 mark predicted the worst song to every be made 1 year later 🤣🤣

Let’s send these kids Crunchlab boxes AND soccer balls, they look more than qualified to make the best of both of them. This video was moving on so many levels…incredible work Mark, thank you a hundred times for the gift of hope in our future.

Hats off to Abdul and all his team. Thanks Mark for showing this to the community

I never heard of Zipline before and my mind is blown! I didn't even notice that drone technology and application in a civil context had already evolved this much! This is what the world needs more of, and it's really relieving to think that such projects exist and work greatly. Thanks for putting them under the spotlight and thanks to those people working hard for a better society.

The house duster or Warehouse vacuum for high places would be nice

Zipline started deliveries of medical supplies to remote islands here in Japan about a year ago.  This is so critical for items whose storage and inventory are challenging to manage locally.  Go Zipline!

This is genuinely amazing to me as a RN working in Alaska. This is easily the best example of necessity being the mother of invention. Large hospitals in major urban areas almost always have a huge stockpile of medical supplies or blood on hand but rural areas more often have to medevac the patient to that hospital as opposed to bringing the critical treatment supplies to them. This is simple and brilliant all at the same time!

After watching one of Mark’s videos I often think Mark has the best content on YouTube. It teaches, wows, inspires, makes me think about people around me, makes me laugh, and occasionally makes me cry. What better content is there than that?

Everyone, like this video so that more people can know about the ambulance idea. Save people’s lives.😊

In Australia, we have the Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS), but just given the size of our continent down here I can't help but feel like we are another perfect place that regional destinations would benefit from technology like Zipline has created. 
Especially if it can be developed in the way that Mark mentions, with Airbourne ambulances etc.

I can't wait to see this everywhere globally in 5 to 15 years. I really don't see anything better being even possible other than actual teleportation.

19:42 

That made me cry

Mark, my respect for what you do just went from stratospheric to intergalactic.  This video was phenomenal, educational, and inspirational.  Thanks so much for bringing it to us all.  Rwanda's meteoric economic rise is a reminder to me that the more we help other countries succeed, the greater their contribution can be to the world!

I wanna work here. This is why I wanna be an engineer. Saving lives.

I'm honestly speachless, as a pationate tech and drone guy myself I'm beyond inspired by this guy, saving and improving the lives of thousands of people doing what you love is an accomplishment that only few ones can achieve. I'd love to be surrounded by minds like these, determined to make such a strong impact in our world! You should be proud ! Best of luck

17:03 zero injuries in 500k deliveries is amazing. It would be interesting to compare to deliveries by car or truck.

3:27 “Lands Safely”

This video made me want to go visit Rwanda!

I learned about Zipline 3 years ago researching for my school's Debate club and I remember thinking about how this seems like it's straight out of a sci-fi book with how efficient and streamlined it was. It's amazing to see how far they've come, and also amazing seeing Mark Rober give spotlight to this revolutionary company.

Someone with his pedigree (Stanford and Harvard!) could've easily taken a high paying cushy job in the States but instead he chose to help his home country. Very admirable.

​ @who_what  I mean Zipline is an American corporation. Just because he sits in Rwanda with the high cushy job, doesn't make it any different

Using a drone

i wish i could invent stuff like Mark rober

There's a Walmart close to me that uses them for home deliveries.

Hi! Nicholas Vielso here, can you be a little bit more specific on what you mean by that? Thanks - Nick

I know, it's so amazing! You'll own nothing and be happy as you get real time insect deliveries to your pod. 🙂

 @forlornhope1861  What do you mean by that?

Not to mention how much faster this is than getting a patient medivaced.

There it is. People just need to remember that necessity is key.

Alaska isn't that much different, in terms of small, isolated areas which need service and supplies....hmmmm

 @RICDirector  That’s why they included that in their response.

 @RICDirector  we could absolutely use this up here! Nearly half our population is in small rural communities with sparcely supplied clinics.

Hi

This technology.
Not bad for.



Military Used.
>:)

As I was mesmerised by the content, I was also thinking in the back of my head: all these superb effort into the shots and the editing and the production... and it's all available to me at zero-cost.. 🤯

I couldnt agree more. I have never seen a Mark Rober video that hasn't moved me or changed me in some way. He is honestly incredible.

you might like veritasium youtube channel as well

 @turinjatot1316  yeah they are super high quality as well.

This is the first video I've seen by him.  And yes, I am crying.  What an awesome invention and now I want to visit Rwanda.

 @benjamincoulson1451  first video I watched was the squirrels. It was fun, funny, interesting, informative, and the squirrels were cute.

100%

Dude Perfect

I agree 100%.

I had exactly the same thought! Imagine many regional and rural communities could benefit from this, it would be amazing!

The distances in our country are leagues larger than Rwanda, would be very interesting to see how they overcome the challenge. Possibly with something like manned hubs that at the end of a drones 300 km range that reload the package into another drone to continue even further out. 
I too am very excited to see where this technology takes us.

 @akenn23  We already have the tech. It's just that once again, the military has it all. i.e. the predator drones can already carry up to 2000kg.

​ @akenn23  Basically a bunch of slingshot points 😂

 @akenn23  think new evolution of the pony express concept.  Stations set as far apart as necessary to capture the package and the exhausted drone and repack and continue the package for the next leg.  Not at all far fetched.

If Australia were to adopt this it would possibly be the last country on earth to do so given the endless red tape that permeates every facet of Australian life. Australia abides by the 3 R's ... Rules .... Regulations and Restrictions.

 @sheerluckholmes5468  Not for flying. Part of why we have so many plane crashes is that they reduced red tape.

😢

Same bro

❤❤

Hear, hear, hear !!!!

BLA BLA bla

Not at all.
Zipline is an American company; created, founded and developed by white Americans.

Ruanda was the field to PROVE the drone prototypes due to its relaxed laws about drones.

 @JohnDoe-kg6gy  So…
It doesn’t matter who or what OR WHAT COLLOR…
This is a wonderful story and I plan to promote it any way I can.

 @JohnDoe-kg6gy  All confederate thinking aside, I'm not sure how what you posted has ANYTHING to do with what I wrote.  Other than the top of your head, do you have a point?

I know the feeling ❤

Zipline is an American company that designs, manufactures, and operates delivery drones. The company operates distribution centers in Rwanda, Ghana, Japan, the United States, and Nigeria, with signed agreements to begin service in Cote d'Ivoire and Kenya. Abdul is just a story to capture your emotions

Yeah he didn't save any lifes, he works for the company he didn't invent it

…I’m at a loss for words other than this is wonderful. Genuinely, a thousand thanks to Zipline for all their hard work, and a thanks to Mark for sharing it.

Wow i had no idea this was happening for six years! I wish the news or mass media would cover stuff like this… just things that should inspire people to keep working hard to move forward and help others

2 YEARS AGO AND I NEVER SAW THIS VIDEO??? GAWD DAYUM IVE NEVER SEEN THIS ON YOUTUBE OR ANYWHERE ELSE FOR 2 YEARS

This was so touching and innovative!!  I loved it!! Thank you Mark for taking the time to share Abdul's story with your community.  What an awesome experience this must have been for you.  It certainly was for me!!

The kid that brought his own drone really tugged on my heart strings. Phenomenal video, awe inspiring company. The future certainly looks great.

How hasn't this company been more publicized?   They are so far and beyond Amazon's efforts.   I finally see a realistic, practical, sustainable use for drone delivery technology!

That was awesome seeing Rwanda in a positive way.

Mark's idea about how zipline could develop feels like it comes out of a Sci-Fi movie or series, and to think humanity has already taken a step towards that is incredible

The fact that the company is so innovative and modern yet still so simple to operate is honestly just so amazing to see

I clicked on a video for a neat novelty and came away with my mind blown. Its amazing enough that the service exists, but the fact that it has been in existence for so many years and how many hospitals it serves and lives have been saved is the greatest thing for me. I can't emphasize enough how much I love this.

Mark, this is amazing! You always make crazy cool things

I am just so awed by the resilience of the Rwandan spirit. Innovations like these are changing lives, and mad props to you Mark Rober for sharing these stories with the community. It really helps to spark some optimism and light in all our lives :)

8:03   'When was the last time you delivered a baby'
Me:    👀  wait,  what ?    by drone?

Mark. Consider documentary-making. Not only was this a fantastic feat of engineering I had never heard of, but it was also excellently packaged and executed perfectly. This is simply amazing and makes me so hopeful for humanity and the future as a whole in a world of bleak news that dominates. Thank you!

The snagging the drone is impressive. The timing to capture that hook is astonishing

This video made me genuinely emotional. Thank you for highlighting such an AMAZING company, the ideas behind it and the PEOPLE with the amazing ideas changing our world. 

And to Abdul, who I truly hope sees this message, thank you for making the world a better place - and for inspiring other little ones to do the same! 

Gosh, I’m still in tears! What a heartwarming, inspiring, incredible story! ❤

Thanks for the incredible documentary on Zipline, Mark.  It is great to see how recovering from a tragic past is building an ever-brighter present and future!
Zipline's city-wide delivery service sounds pretty impresive, too.  Although, I'd still be out of bounds from either of my local cities.  Rural SD, what can I say?

That was one of the most enriching videos I have seen on YouTube and I watch a lot of videos. I would love to step forward and invest in the Zipline company simply to support their efforts in making a better world. Thank you Mark for putting this operation in front of the wide public. Blood pumping here as well. I look forward to sharing the video here in Iceland.

I personally would like to be a commercial drone pilot doing deliveries like this.

My parents were posted to the US Embassy in Kigali, and I got to live in Rwanda with my family for a while.  One of the most beautiful countries we have ever lived in.  We also all agree, this country has the friendliest people we ever experienced.  I am very proud of Rwanda in accomplishing this with zipline.

It's true, there are so many inspiring stories and positive developments happening all around us, but unfortunately, they often go unnoticed by the mainstream media. However, with the rise of social media and online content creators, there are more opportunities for these stories to be shared and celebrated. It's important to seek out diverse sources of information and to support creators and organizations that highlight these positive developments.

It's better that systems designed to benefit people are done in relative secrecy these days until they're well developed, lest they be co-opted by financial institutions whose only goals are to exploit everything to the maximum possible for the primary benefit of the shareholders.

 @TonyRule zip line is a for profit company also

Mass medias job is to form public opinion, not inform.

Especially that ending. Didn't expect to tear up from a drone delivery video, but here we are.

 @Ad0be010  
I'm glad I'm not the only one. Abdul's story is both heartbreaking and inspiring.

I can't imagine being attacked by a pyscho with a machete and then using that as inspiration fuel to start a drone delivery company!

Because Zipline likely hasn't spent as much money as Amazon on marketing the project.

Because they don't really work in urban areas, the long travel has never been the issue with drone deliveries, it's the last mile. Compliance and regulations, FAA restrictions on regulated airspace, drop accuracy even in low density neighborhoods, stolen packages, accidents, broken packaging, monitoring, etc. It's not even about the technology, it's practical applications.

How long until Amazon acquires them? :(

 @BVazz  Its possible Amazon will just make their own versions. That said it seems the skill set and engineering behind this product will make it hard even for a big company to play catch up.

 @BVazz that’s what all the big companies do. They sit on the sidelines letting others do the building then snatch it up.

There's a flaw with last mile individual delivery. Let's say 25 houses on 1 street has a delivery, and the distance is 5km. A drone would need to travel 25 x 5 km. However 1 vehicle can deliver all the packages in just 5km, since it does mot need to go back and forth.

 @humza890  that's why they work best for exceptional deliveries which are urgent, such as the blood patches shown in the video

 @humza890  The odds of all 25 houses having a delivery at the same time are small. But even so, that sounds like a matter of proper resource management. Simply use a program to calculate whether it'd be more efficient to deliver by drone, or by truck, instead of defaulting to just one method.

 @humza890  I think the real situation for a amazon delivery drone would be house or businesses that are on the outskirts of towns or citys. Instead of having a driver drive 5-10 miles out of his way to do one drop, a fixed wing drone could be used to make a drivers route more efficient in time and fuel usage. So for the 85% of amazon deliveries that are in urban and suburban areas, they would still need van delivery. But that other 15% could be accomplished by these Zipline UAV's  streamlining their already efficient delivery model.

Probably less regulatory hurdles.

I dont know anything, but I imagine amazon would try to smother their presence the same way other big companies do so to smaller, less wealthy companies. It'd be smarter for amazon to partner with them though, who knows.

 @judedormezil7917  Amazon will likely partner with them but then acquire them outright if it makes business sense to do so

​@PopasaurusRex  no that doesnt make sense, zipline arent stepping on amazons territory at all. They have no reason to supress a company that isnt even a competitor

Let me introduce you to the biggest company killer in history: Scaling.

I don’t think people see Amazon in the same light as zipline. If Amazon bought out zipline it too would lose its momentum

Мав.ю.

Bc it tanks the cardboard and oil/gas business which a lot of ppl have stocks in so it’s kinda suppressed

Because Amazon doesn't just do drones, maybe?

 @hawkeye11en1  they also abandoned the project years ago

Can't work in cities with skyscrapers

 @ahmedmahadik  drones could work well in cities --- every skyscraper suddenly becomes a nice landing pad for drones

 @ahmedmahadik  The thing is, it doesn't need to work in cities with skyscrapers.

‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎E

exactly

If planes need constant maintenance, this will as well. If batteries take ages to recharge, or need constant replacements, this will as well. And if nature is unstoppable, from birds, to bees, and great trees, this will fail as well....

 @GrimReaperNegi  LOL you sound like someone in 1910 who said airplanes could never work because of wind and birds and rain

 @GrimReaperNegi  1) They don't need constant maintenance. 2) The batteries are charged in a rotational system, so you start charging a new battery the moment you take one off. Therefore, this is a non-issue. 3) As they already said, these planes are VERY robust and can survive a LOT of things.

I have a solution to the problem. Store the blood on site. Much faster...

 @kameljoe21  In a lot of places, more than you would imagine, not possible.

​@William Glaser  unless we have entire farms for blood inside every hospital that's not really plausible. Blood doesn't last long enough nor do many places have enough donors to keep up with demands.

 @kameljoe21  wow, you must be the smartest guy on the planet to have thought up that idea

Yeah, we need more drones and less delivery vans 🤖🚙

It truly restored the Faith in humanity.

I want a zipline company in holland LOL. I'd deffinetly use it

Cluttered skies how great..

 @tannerpaisley-ve6dq  not "cluttered" but "managed airspace" --- and it's been managed for 125 years now

This had better be a joke if it is then it’s a bad joke

😂😂😂

I couldn’t agree more. A wonderful video about a company I’ve never heard of previously. Thank you.

And we constantly say that technology is the future and people are currently designing and making things today that will impact the next generation more than ours. Mark and his team is definitely able to present relatively complex ideas in an "everyday" manner for us <3

You just made me tear up 🥲

Salty a bit eh?

 @Frosted76667  not at all .. why would you say that ?

Your comment is exactly what I was feeling while watching this video. Blood pumping here as well.

Totally agreed

You nailed it, John. Wish I had enough money to support efforts like these.

My sister shared it with me and I’m stating it on, this needs to be spread!
I hope Zipline is able to grow and continue with its work helping people without interference from companies like Amazon

You made me cry with joy again, Mark Rober. I too, am an engineer, and have a medical background from my military service. Thanks for exposing me to what ZipLine is doing,  their work in Rawanda is AmAzInG, and the capabilities of their designs are creative/important beyond measure. I appreciate your work immesly, and it inspires me as an engineer to do cool things...and thanks for being such a fantastic storyteller.

As an engineer in the drone industry, Zipline is by far the most inspiring company out there, doing things to make a difference. So glad that you showcased them Mark!

As a Rwandan, I am soooo happy to see this video

I’m glad you’ve brought this company to the forefront of people’s mind, I’ve never even heard of them before but I’m definitely interested in learning more about them and seeing what they do in the future 😁😁

Bro.... the part at the end when the kid brings Abdul his home made drone....omg goosebumps. That is a cycle we don't want to break. Great video Mark!

As an avid RC flyer, I was not impressed when this idea came out some years ago. After watching your video, I have changed my mind on the inventiveness of us mere mortals. Thank you for demonstrating just how well it could work. Also, thank you for your video on Rwanda. I still recall seeing the news when this tragedy happened. So sad. Thank you for your update on such a beautiful land and their people.

I am blown away by the beauty of that engineering design. The aerodynamicism is BEAUTIFUL. Just wow. Sometimes I'm reminded of the true power of engineering and this video was definitely one of those moments.

A hugeeeeeeee respect to this guy, and to you mark. Seeing people doing so great thigs with their life really tears me up. I may never be a contribution to this world ever. But seeing some people doing so really gives me a sense of satisfaction. This world is beutiful and worth living in and you can only realize it by looking at these people.

Phenomenal content from Mark as always. Shining a light on emerging technology like this and the amazing people behind it is an extremely noble way to use your platform.

All the respect in the world.

This is amazing. The system they've created in Rwanda is absolutely phenomenal. Engineering at it's finest.

2:22  ... dont get me started

I want to take this very moment and want Mark to realise the knowledge and passion he is giving to young enthusiastic engineers. Thank you. Society always needed you and you made it happen. With love...from a 3rd world country.

Mark, I have been following you for 2 years, and this is the first video that made me cry. I'm a 3rd year social science student from Vietnam stories like these really inspire me about the potential of developing countries. Rwanda is also officially my favourite country. Lets bring engineering to make the world a better place <3

I remember hearing about Zipline a few years ago on a podcast. I'm so excited to see what they're working on now and how it operates in the real world

3:33 We see that the package falls very safely to the ground! 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣

This is incredible. When I think of engineering, this is what I want to picture. I work for a company that designs motherboards and FPGA products, so a lot of my work goes into robotics control systems and cell towers. Both are important, but the work these people are doing is next level. So, from one engineer to another, thank you to the Zipline team.

You had me at ROS. Having developed autonomous indoor flight capable drones in 2011/12 (when the internet was still young) using ROS, i have the utmost respect for the system he had created. Hats off to him for creating a way for robots to seamlessly interact with each other, amongst other things !!!!

It's incredible to see the ways in which real people are solving big problems, and this has got to be one of the craziest examples I've seen in a while. Props to Abdul and the team for all the work they're continuing to do, and props to you for putting that in the spotlight. You're also certainly not the first person to imagine flying ambulances but building that idea off of the Zipline platform puts way closer than anyone could have imagined

That Nokia throw voided some warranties

Mark, you never fail to inspire and somehow make me feel incredibly inspired and emotional with your videos like this. Your an amazing human and just want to bring out the best in everyone.

Wish some one would 😢 Cry for me

 @jaykingsly922  I will. 😢

​ @jaykingsly922 aww 🥰

 @jaykingsly922  lemme get the onions

Mountain Gorillas, sorry.

Kate why do you have to be to dramatic?

 @James.1_2-3  I cry at well crafted commercials. 🤣

What type of engineer are you? Just asking.

 @jeremiah3749  Background is aerospace engineering. But industry will take mech/electrical as well

 @jeremiah3749  he just said - a drone engineer

How do I get into your industry?!

Sam do you want to start a drone delivery company I’m based in the uk

And maybe invest. It is literally a advertisement for stock selling

I'm still salty about the restrictions and seemingly focused destruction of the RC hobby by our 'leaders", I am however amazed with the progress the drone delivery business has made.

​ @CCWSig  completely irrelevant to the video

What does that have to do with you being an "RC flyer"?

 @officialktgame  because all fixed-wing drones stem from aeromodelling. And rc plane flyers are aeromodellers.

Stop feeling sorry for yourself and work on your own contribution

I can only see one flaw and it is with the people who only can make money by delivering items to people via door dash etc

might want them to engineer a better parachute haha don't want any bystanders getting whacked by that package hahah

But ever 1 knows

when you realize that Earth is the 3rd planet from the sun, resulting in every country to be a 3rd world country...

‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎E

Your major is kinda rare dude, I’ve never heard this. But we all know Vietnam has big potential to become big in science industry soon

Props pun hopefully intended :P

We already have flying ambulances though, they're called helicopters.

 @tibor29  they're loud and need a large space for landing, this is what zipline solves!

 @tibor29  yeah except there are a lot of problems with medical transport helicopters I think would be solved by something like this, not to mention you could probably get patients into rooms even faster if the whole pod drops down on supporting cables rather than having to land the helicopter to get the patient where they need to be

​ @tibor29  llkl

This type of engineering fuels me. I'm literally tearing up listening to the power that people following their purpose can have on the world.

A couple weeks ago, I had a substitute teacher in science class. She didn't know what to do, so she put on this video for our class to watch. It was honestly so cool to see all this stuff, and though my goal in life is to become an animator, what the people do here is amazing and I think I might want to work here one day. Thanks Mark, for inspiring me to reach for even more in my future!

Respect for Rwanda. Greetings from Brazil.

Thank you Mark for creating this content and doing everything that you do! This video in particular is inspirational to say the least. I’m simply amazed. 

i have so much respect for Abdul, the amount he has gone through, the horrifying things he has seen and he his still there to take care for the rest of the community. Big up Abdul.

I love all of your engineering content, but when you showcase these geniuses, it hits even better. Thank you Mark for showcasing these inspirational people.

I'm impressed and think your idea to do an ambulance unit is a great

These drones are incredible. I hope they get worldwide use soon

I didn't care about the food delivery drones but seeing it used for emergency medical supplies filled my heart with hope. Way to go the engineering team and people from Rwanda ❤️🤘

Abdul is a clear testament to the greatness one individual can achieve having been through severe trauma in an environment that doesn’t promote anything remotely close to what he accomplished and what he had to overcome with the loss of his whole family. Seriously I can’t believe this man’s determination and generosity, hats off to you sir and thank you for the motivation to make myself better. Amazing tech and brilliant innovation. Thanks for bringing this to our attention and spreading awareness about brilliant companies like zip line.

I really like the zipper :)

At first I thought your ‘drone medical helicopter’ idea was very sci-fi crazy. Then I realized how often my rural area has helicopter calls. We have had copters land in fields a half mile away because it’s the closest large and cleared space. A drone that could hover over the home and only needs a landing space the width of a driveway could be a life saver.

I'm glad Mark put this Zipline drone into a bigger spotlight and showing it as one of his YouTube videos.
I was interested in drones for a few years now, and I learned about the Zipline delivery about a year ago.
Such an amazing idea, but I have a question.
Due to regulations of air space (like restricting drone flight around an airport), will this type of drone delivery remain niche or can it expand? Maybe Zipline can expand to some towns/cities?

As someone who got into the drone industry this year this is super awesome to see. Kepp up the amazing work Mark

Your last message was touching. I am just a kid!😊

Hi Mark - this is likely the best video you've ever done, and hopefully the most impactful for inspiring hope for us being on the forefront of technology reducing severity of a lot of our critical problems at once. Thanks for finding this topic, making the video, explaining it in your style, and offering hopefulness.

This has to be the most inspiring thing ive ever seen. Earlier this year i finally graduated after some setbacks with a bachelors degree in mechatronics. Since then ive been in a weird place with no real goal infront of me other than "find a somewhat interesting job to make money". Abdul´s story really inspired me again to use my knowledge to make the world a better place. So from the bottom of my heart thank you Abdul for igniting that flame inside me again and thank you Mark Rober for this beautiful video :)

I always appreciate how Mark keeps things interesting and doesn't drone on too much!

Now that was really worthwhile to watch. Well done, sir.

Abdul is incredible. This whole Ruwanda deep dive was incredible. I don't care about food being delivered by a drone but those life-saving applications are mindblowing.

Perhaps industrial design is for you, if you develop the engineering itch

You are actually inspirational

Mony :D

-9.99$

 @descending_dudu  mony'nt D:

That last bit about him got me. The things he's seen. What a legend

Not at all because laws and legislation about drones in developed countries is strict.

Zipline, an American company created, founded and technologically developed by white Americans found in Ruanda the perfect place to TEST its drones due to its relaxed or lack of laws and regulations about drones.

It’s an American company , using European tech. As usual . Sorry

 @papermaker2726 Are you a supremest?

The food delivery drones will actually change the world to a greater extent. Removing cars from the road for any small errand like picking up a few items, or lunch, when multiplied by the billions of people in the world, will be enormously impactful.

 @JorenMathews  ikr. It will reduce traffic dramatically and save people risking their life on the road

Tf? Necessity is the mother of invention

 @SpeedKing..  tf? Is the point of your comment?

One individual can't achieve anything meaningful.
Workers were responsible for this technology.

 @ciro_costa  this is objectively false but I doubt you’d know much about that if your only response to my comment is that lol.

The drone could have human emt’s to treat you en route of course skipping all the traffic, bad roads and trains en route.

Honestly if your rural area gets a ton of medivac use it’s because either there is a ton of calls that meet the need for it or that area lacks a proper hospital within ambulance distance.

Edit: my town of 33k gets maybe 5 medivac tops a month, but the very rural town east of us, about 20-30 miles gets a medivac nearly as much as us with 1/10th the population as their hospital is only a level 3, compared to ours being a level 2 hospital.

How would the drone be able to help you?

​ @RedshirtAfficionado  antivenin, emergency defib, adrenaline

​ @RedshirtAfficionado  the drone would have a pod it could lower into your driveway. I just saw a youtube video about it.

 @RedshirtAfficionado  buddy😭🤦‍♂️

i was thinking the same thing, major cities where there are big international airports, or big internal airports would have a harder time in terms of airspace regulation

not to mention all the lobbyists traditional delivery companies like amazon, uber, and others are going to put on regulators to have a impossibly strict standard to meet... i could see amazon employing them and saving money on their truck delivery fleet in a city, but uber and other strictly delivery only companies would suffer greatly

now, i'm all for drone delivery

 @imblackmagic1209  If this technology can save costs for Amazon and Uber, you bet they will buy the company and lobby the airspace to be open for them.

Only time will tell.

​@@infinitenayc9910 These rules already exist in the US, but areas around airports are No Fly zones for drones entirely.

The biggest issue is that the FAA rules mean even even commercial-use drones require visual connection to never be broken during flight. It would be easy for them to operate in class G levels with pre-flight paths and clearance after that is settled.

I see so many smart kids graduate with an engineering degree and then they go find some boring job designing a new toilet pipe or something LOL --- keep fighting to find a job at a truly innovative company like Zipline Drones and change the world for the better!

Go for it!

It isn't Superman or billionaires that change the world. It's having the intelligence to recognize a need, and the know-how to apply a solution. I have faith in you and others like you!

 @BoyProdigyX  Thank you for your kind words. People like Abdul show that everyone can have a significant impact on other peoples lifes and the world!

Nice pun

Of course people commenting 1 minute after the vid releases without even watching it.

Was the pun intended?

There's going to be quite a buzz around this company when their service drops for the public.

 @HermanVonPetri  i mean. In the video they advertized no buzz

fr

I see what you did there. I love and hate that comment lmao

I get the joke.

true

pun VERY intended

I see what u did there

LOL

laughing exquisitely

10:57, He's looking at all of us.

Mark, your video is amazing!!! Thank you, I want that if he can delivery in Canada?😀

i think the us should take a few notes from rwanda.. that place sounds freaking awesome

11:19 bro shaker the kids hand like it's jelly

nah 2:21 is just Mark showing off his Advanced Observation Haki 💀

Zipline just started service in Mesquite, TX. They will also be starting in Waxahachie soon.

hey mark about that thing you said at the last slide about for humans i might start working on that

Thank you for expressing how important failure is - I've always told others I stay so positive in life because my job is to fail - as a software engineer - I fail on a daily basis - and working with learning from that failure is how I keep happy in my job - and in my life as a whole.

So once again - Thank you so much Mark!

I don't know if anything has changed, but the caliber of the last two videos has been outrageous. These feel like a professionally produced series sponsored by a huge production company. My mind is absolutely blown. I watched this video with my jaw dropped and I'm pretty sure I probably drooled without even knowing it. Much love from an increasingly loyal fan. ❤ thank you, Mark and team! Incredible work. I tell people "gotta check out the bed bug video" and they just won't understand until they watch it lol. But the drone vid is on a different level.

Zipline have really nailed the drone delivery thing in a part of the world where urgent deliveries simply cannot happen because of the bad roads, assuming you can reach your destination by road at all.

That also means if their stuff works in such an extreme environment where time is of the essence, it’ll work in a city or town anywhere on earth.

I’m glad you were able to get out there and cover this amazing engineering.

This is one of the rare times I've come across a company I haven't heard of before and by the end of the video I had already applied for a job with them. Talk about a company you want to work for as you believe in the product. Fantastic video as always, and thank you for bringing this to the masses!

This has got to be the most impressive application of drone technology that I think i've ever seen.   Thanks for promoting this Mark.

Now they're actually delivering chipotle in Dallas area!

12:25 He’s STILL USING Plant’s VS Zombie’s 1 MUSIC

Massive respect to all of the people behind Zipline - It seems really useful for Rwanda and hopefully it continues expanding to more and more places!

8:08 That's pretty fresh 😂😂😂😂

Mark, thank you for everything. This video was so entertaining, educational and inspiring all at the same time, it actually made me very emotional. You have a knack for inspiring the best feelings in people and your excitement and energy can be felt through the screen. Continue to do what you do, if the planet had a few more like you, we would be better as a species. All the blessings, health and success to you, sir.

I think probably the thing I love most about Mark's videos is every one we're learning something new, at least for me. Those 10 videos a year is truly worth it because every video is just amazing. Thank you Mark for all that you do.

12:30 - plants vs zombies music is playing lol.

2:22 from the screen to the ring to the pen to the king

Failure is one of the most important steps to succes, that whats my teacher always told us.

yeah the failing culture cultivated in software development is actually my favorit part of beeing a dev outside of having a impact on many peoples lifes ofc.
do you doTDD?

Trying and testing things is often the only practical way of arriving at a viable solution in a particular situation.  Rare if not nonexistent is the person who can get a set of specs and build a thing that is going to actually bring happiness to the customer and do it without any adjustments if not radical rethinks.  There may be some chief use case that will slip through the cracks for both the customer and the implementer.

you donated 10 dollars as well, your a massive W, you have my respect

You failed to convince me, so congratulations?

 @bhz8947  why would you give a millionaire 10 dollars?

A youtube channel with 23.6 million subscribers is not a tiny indie operation. There is plenty of money floating around for a pretty decent production budget.

 @StephanAhonen true but as MR said in the video he only makes like 1 video a month and the views have gone down a lot so he doesn’t make that much money anymore. At least not as much as he used to back when he got like 30M views/vid. He was basically MrBeast..

Best of luck!

Or, also, a company I actually want to invest in for the sake of development. What an amazing video this is holy moly.

The roof's

Glad to read this. I got teary eyed at many points in this video. Seeing the promise and hope in humanity from inventions like this is so moving.

 @ivanamendez478  absolutely Ivana. Very powerful video. Seems like a lot of other people in the comments had the same emotional reaction. It's so refreshing to me.

He is truly a great inspiration for many people !!!

Well said! Amen! 🤜🏻🤛🏻

Real Engineering made a video about this company years ago when they were only operating in Rwanda.

the roof's

i can hear the cabbage and corn and watermelon being thrown on the gargantuan

Genius Easter egg lmao

Every time these videos come out I get so exited. Mark has made amazing videos ever time.

Thats freakin awesome! So innovative and inspiring

18:50
Yeaaah, Trauma team! Can't wait to see Max Tac as well:)

I can see this being massively implemented over the next few years if not months.

5:40 He did WHAT!?!?!?!?!? Thats just incredible

This has to be my favorite video you've brought to us. Insane stuff in this video. This company needs to reach 100% of human, the world would be a much, much better place.

As someone who had projects for autonomous drone, this is exactly what Ive dream of. Cant believe I never heard of Zipline before. The engineering and cause behind it is extremely fascinating 😢

This was my favorite video Mark. So touching

I sold this company their cellular services for their drone base stations 3 years ago.  I had no idea how cool their use case was until seeing this video.  🤯 thank you for the awesome content!

I would love to see Zipline develop something that could do well in unexpected weather climates like our mountain environments in steep terrains in the North Cascades!

This is absolutely one of the most inspiring things I’ve ever seen. Thanks for this video, Mark. ❤

I feel like very few people have mentioned this but abdul's story is really inspiring. Yeah I know it's kinda cliche or whatever but my heart really goes out to him and people like him who have suffered from tragedies and yet come back stronger wanting to better the world for others.

That kid at the end 😢 ❤

Love the zipline concept and those out of the box style propellers. I hope this idea gets traction all over the world. On another note I love these Mark Robber videos. As an engineer I'm very entertained by this content and love how he keeps the subject light, informative and yet entertaining. If only school was actually like this my son would enjoy learning as much as I do.

Outstanding job as always Mark and team. I was very moved by Abdul's story and amazed at what he has achieved. Zipline looks like the future of the delivery industry. Great pick for a video.

Nothing makes me happier than seeing creative solutions to solve important problems. This makes me proud to be an engineering student. Thank you for making this video Mark Rober!

Mark - thank you for this video. This has to be one of my favorite and most informative videos that I have watched in a while. I cannot imagine how far we have come with technology and how we are able to ameliorate current methods into improved, better, non-traditional ones -- despite being told it would never work. Shoutout to Rwanda as well! So glad there are countries out there that are strong and work together, maintaining what it means to be a community, given such a recent challenging event. Thank you for putting this on your platform and showing everyone these amazing feats of engineering, as well as beautiful Rwanda.

10videos a year. Emphasis on quality. Mind blowing. Rwanda,   proud of you. I wish Nigeria would learn

This sort of thing would be a godsend in rural Australia, I am completely amazed by the ingenuity and will of Zipline's creators, these are the people who change the world for the better.

Dude I thought about this idea years ago! That’s crazy

‎‎‎‎‎E

 @EEEEEEEE  E

Also E

yeah me to

Yea

I was second away from being the first in the comment but my Gboard froze on me for awhile

excited

fr

Keep going.... You'll achieve great things someday if not today

Not cliche and I agree w you completely!

a lot of people mentioned this, but yeah i agree his story was inspiring

yeah what about the kid at the ending? there was more than one kid at the ending i believe

forthhhhh

yes i know i spelled it wrong

Fifth

Sixth

8 :)

Yeah. I wished I had a moment like that when I was young.

Thirddddddd

secondddddddddddddddddddddd

first

Its not a concept. it's already doing it in several countries. Did you watch the video??

You said concept 3 times lmao

 @officialktgame  A concept becoming real does not mean it is no longer a concept. It is still also a concept, it is just no longer only a concept. All real things are concepts, not all concepts are real things.

 @officialktgame  I think he means concept as in an idea, not as in a prototype of a certain product.

 @officialktgame  changed a couple of the concepts just for you. Next time I post I will copy you as my official self appointed editor and critic.

If this catches on,I will be a monkeys uncle.

We will

By God's grace

oh nah 💀what

Where is Australia?

The level of amazing in this idea is incredible. Thank you so much for covering this, Mark! Best YouTuber ever!

This is one of the coolest things I've ever seen.  Thanks, Mark, for highlighting this amazing, life-saving technology!

Projects like these are what inspire me to become an engineer. I'm in my final year of high school and about to head into four long years of a mechanical engineering major. And while I am still very daunted by the idea of committing so much time and resources on those four years, projects and companies like Zipline and their mission in Rwanda remind me of why I wanted to study engineering in the first place. Thank you for sharing and telling Zipline's story.

la Tecnologias es buena. Felicito a Ruanda por ese trabajo tan excelente.

Mark, you are the literal best. I love learning about the progress our world's best minds are coming up with today. Thank you for all you do to help us stay informed, involved, and supportive of the beautiful work that is engineering. Hoping my son continues to love that work as much as you do. 🥰

This has got to be one of the most inspiring stories I've come across in years. I wish these amazingly creative people all success in this world and beyond. They make it a better place.

Mark, as an engineer for the last 50 years I have to say you’re amazing and so is Zipline!  Well done!

That is absolutely amazing, my hats off to you people of Rwanda

As a college student who is a mechanical engineering major, I find Mark’s videos to be very inspirational. This drone in particular is an incredibly inspiring proposition to me, as everything about it looks so promising. It might be possible that this will become the future of not only the delivery industry, but of almost all methods of transportation. Cars could become a thing of the past and, although it would take a lot more work to figure out a way to replace long distance truck delivery, short distance truck delivery (like from a warehouse to a nearby distribution center) could be replaced by this drone delivery service as well. This design could even be used in the tourism industry (like they have cameras around the outside and give the people riding it a VR headset that gives them a full 360 degree view of the outside as they’re flying along. or they make the capsule with materials that make the capsule see-through.) Furthermore, I’m certain that almost anything a helicopter can do, this drone can do too. This drone might very well be capable of, as Mark put it, changing everything.

I really appreciate the effort and passion mark puts into these videos, these videos are really making a big impact on the world

What helps drone activity in Rwanda is fairly stable weather throughout the year.  Rwanda's daily temperature only varies  within about a 20 degree range and rain is their only "major" weather threat during a typical year.
Great video Mark...you always succeed in delving deeper into your subject content leaving us viewers completely entertained, engaged and almost as enthusiastic as you by the end🤣 you're a gem 💎 in the YouTube family

This is probably my favorite thing I’ve ever seen. Everything about this story, the company, the people, the country and the dedication and determination to do things better is beyond words.

Thank you so much for sharing this.

Wow that delivery system is impressive. It looks so easy to implement compared to the infrastructure that we currently have and would be a brilliant method to transport things in the everyday context! I would love to see this expand.

This world needs more people like Abdul - people who are using their talents to help their communities and solving the world’s problems! Wishing you all the success in the world!

Seeing things like this makes me still have a bit of hope in humanity.

I absolutely love that self-taught engineer. Makes me happy that he exists

5:28 keeping a will to live after that experience is to me heroic. Let alone holding onto a passion like this. Without a doubt your whole family would be so incredibly proud of you, as I am.

"I realize calling William one of the BEST engineers I know is disrespectful to the word best but I don't want to hurt his feelings by not including him" 

This is why Mark is incredible.

Honestly, parts of this video make me cry.  Thank you for helping to get this information out into the world.  Amazing.

One of the most helpful and inspiring YouTube videos I’ve ever watched! Bravo, to that young surviving engineer, to better humanity  🙌 incredible job, Mark

Controversial, but very respectable 🤝

4 years is nothing just focus on you studies and it’ll fly by.

beware of the intregrals

As I am on my third year of studying engineering I can guarantee you'll be sad they were only 4

 @paolo_goli  well there’s always grad school if you really want to stick around longer lol

Please give yourself the confidence and permission to make great things instead of allowing someone to pay you just to make what they want you to make.

I find it amazing how he describes a futuristic version of a helicopter at 18:48 and doesn't even realize it.

Freight is already containerized since trucks and trains began doing it in the 70s. It's not hard to imagine a future where electrified railroads deliver to drone hubs where the containers are loaded onto aircraft instead of trucks.

Long distance you just use trains. This is always going to be the most efficient option

the crazy part is despite how crazy it sounds 6 years ago, this works better than any proposed drone alternative, heck i'll place special trampoline for the package on rooftop if the "standard" drone delivery is available for public

Aero engineering student here. What you're describing is the end of the remaining worker jobs in the country. What will happen to those people? 
It looks like a promising tech as it's sold to us in a cheery upbeat fashion, but it is in fact a dystopian nightmare.

 @kylesanders8276  That's a problem with capitalism as a whole, not the concept of automation itself. If there is a society where advancing technologically leads to negative consequences, it is most often the fault that there is some system that benefits from the problem the technology solves. If we can solved the inherent flaws in capitalism and lead to a more equitable system for all, this will be a much more manageable issue.

 @kylesanders8276  yeah that's something people don't like talking about, and usually draws a lot of hate.
Overall, though, having machines do the work of several people while being operated by one is why economies are so robust today, and why working conditions have gotten both safer and better with higher wages over time.
Advancements overall are great, however planning does need to be done to lessen the impact on those negatively effected in the short term.

 @kylesanders8276  They will end up on the wrong side of the wall.

Wouldn't be terribly hard to design drones that can fly in cold weather --- current consumer drones from DJI can already fly in temps down to 20F (although limited flight times)

Simply switching from Lithium Ion to LiFePO4 could make for better cold weather drones. The downside to those is worse energy density, which means either worse flight endurance, or worse payload fractions. But, it wouldnt be hard to scale LiFePO4 down to small enough to fit in a drone.

Another unusual option could be aluminum oxide redox batteries, which have 10 times bettery energy density than lithium ion... But "recharging" those basically means literally recycling the battery, and that kind of infrastructure would have to be built up.

Any idea why they would send blood one by one with drones instead of storing all of them in hospitals?

 @goku445  could be limitations on available storage or adequate refrigerated space.

 @goku445  power outages + not enough supply

​ @goku445  my thoughts exactly, instead of spending so much money and effort into developing and designing a drone system isn't it easier to build a proper storage that can facilitate those needed blood bags or what not?  If it was vital organs needed for transplant I would have understood but just plain blood? What's the point?

but sky rocketing unemployment in packages delivery industry isn't an invention, 
while people already fear chatGPT and midjourney taking over their job

 @electronresonator8882  Unfortunately whether something helps with unemployment statistics is not a consideration in most business decisions. If the human creates the inefficiency, then it is usually the human that needs to go. It's the same reason why we no longer have jobs such as a "computer" or a "switchboard operator". It's simply because of the fact that it is inherently inefficient to have these jobs in place when they can be automated.

 @electronresonator8882  well but it will generate more employment in other thing like few ex - infrtucture, and similar jobs shown by the people in video and less cars less polutions than before , this project on large scale will have great advantages

It doesn't really scale that well. It's utterly fantastic for exactly what they are currently employing it for, but mass delivery will never be replaced by a huge number of individual transports, because they are inherently less efficient than one big vehicle

Until you realize that the sheer number of them flying around will be rather loud. And a few of them will fall out of the sky at least a few times a year. Which will probably result in deaths and lawsuits.

 @yorgborg7899  you mean just like cars? altho car much worst?

 @yorgborg7899  Little bro watched the video on mute

 @yorgborg7899  Cars are a thing, yet I dont hear that many people complain about them
Also about the crashing thing, do you not see the parachutes?

He started out self-taught, but followed it up with college and grad school.

 @jsquared1013  even better!

how does it help humanity..in the hood people will just pull the rope and sell the parts..we have to fix other things first.

 @thomashauer6804  damaging a drone is considered a felony in most states

 @thomashauer6804  this might surprise you but "the hood" is an incredibly small part of humanity

haram

As an engineer, Im proud of what we did for the world. Long live the engineers!!

Thank you Mark for this opportunity of zooming in on some incredible engineering I would never have known otherwise. You're doing a great service in sowing inspiration and passion.

I'm so excited for Amazon to copy this and use it to profit off people!

Abdul has one of the most incredible stories I’ve heard. Crazy how he can bring so much optimism after such a terrible event

This is incredibly wholesome 😊 I've never wanted a company to succeed more.

I love the positivity, ingenuity and passion in Mark's videos but I wasn't expecting to be getting teary at the end of this one 😂❤

What an awesome video sir.. As a drone pilot, I would love to see this tech blossom into the mainstream here in the states.  Until now, I did not know this is performed so efficiently in Rwanda.  Such an incredible operation that is and kudos to Zipline, I feel more confident than ever that we will see this incredible service "take flight" sooner than later in all parts of the globe.

The zipline एम्बुलेंस,,,great work, incredible work.. awesome

How can you not love this guy, so inspiring and encouraging while also getting very beneficial things done

I had no idea this technology was currently in existence. This to me, has got to be one of the coolest, useful, most satisfying tech today. Very Cool indeed!  Thank you very much for your video. I am sure many viewing this will find it inspiring, and perhaps promote new ideas in the minds of future inventors.

Mark, your enthusiasm is truly admirable, and it's remarkable how these guys were able to overcome their challenges and achieve something phenomenal.

La verdad extraordinario lo que hace esta gente, buen video, gracias

As a first year mechatronics engineering student, this is the kind of stuff that makes me proud of becoming an engineer

As Developer and DevOps engineer, I always hope to work in companies that are literally changing the world with technologies and automation like that. Hope to help build a better future for us all

These folks are literally making the world a better place! Brings me to tears, with hope for a better future for my kids and their kids. Please never stop highlighting stuff like this! ❤

I have watched this video in science when I was in school

Mark Rober, this is absolutely the best video you have ever made. Seeing the life-saving work Zipline is doing in Rwanda had me in tears. Thank you for continuing to use your platform to highlight the powers of engineering to save lives and create a better future.

These are the things that make me excited and inspired as someone pursuing engineering. It shows that the things I do on a high school robotics team are the exact same thing that other teams do around the world, just on different scales. Makes me so pumped for my future!

I just want to pray for abdul… I’m sure the scars both emotionally and physically haven’t fully healed. But I wanted to commend you on the change that you’re making in this world. Much love

Pahla Abdul dekha jo kala hai 😂

How can you tell someone is and engineer? Dont worry, they will let you know.

Until its long live the robots 😮

That's the human spirit!❤

He,s my father...😊

i disagree.

 @notnilc2107  care to elaborate?

Plants vs Zombies!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I can hear PVZ BGM

That's the point of the video, to make you like a corporation

 @theflawedamy  capitalism is amazing.

In the US, lawyers, unions, and politicians will shut this down so fast.   
And as an engineer, this makes me sad.

Alternatively we could focus on community level projects that reduce or eliminate our need on flying pieces of plastic and flammable batteries by increasing density and walkable places to live. But, you know, Cool Tech Is Cool Bro

 @Dysiode  what about those 4 hour hospital flights that deliver blood to patients who urgently need it? we can't just walk to the place that has the blood and be back in time to stop the emergency. I agree places should become more walkable, but you have to admit these things are wonderful and can save many people's lives. Some people just can't go that far on their own, even in cars

I've been thinking like an engineer on my own things at home for many years and improving designs and functions on household products and a garden tractor I used to have. But this just blows my mind. It's thrilling and inspiring to watch. I'm saving this video for re-watch over and over and to share with others. Thank you sincerely from the Philippines, where I live.

Absolutely heartwarming. It's so amazing how they work together and have such optimism and happiness, even after tragedies have effected them in various ways. It's also crazy to think they have something like those little zipline planes for medical supplies and we're sitting back here with cars. Very inspiring and amazing video!

Thanks!

This is actually so incredible. Seeing these kind of things really kindles my hopes for an actually sustainable future, it's simply marvelous to see true engineering minds work their magic c:

Mark is single-handedly able to restore my faith in humanity. The world needs more people like him.

Bro this was probably your best video.

Mark never failing to show inspirational content yet again❤

1yr later already! What happened to the drone that's going to change everything?

I was skeptical the first time I heard about packages being delivered by drones years ago but to see it in action is really impressive and amazing!!

We have drone deliveries in Australia. The company is called wing and they operate off the roof of a local shopping center. The people who collect the items from the shop below for delivery are called drone runners. Their has been a few complaints due to noise but overall I feel it’s been a positive service. My wife is a teacher and a some of the staff use the service to get coffees delivered to the school.

Nearly 5 million views within 12 hours of uploading! That just goes to show the quality and messaging behind Mark’s videos and how eager people are to watch his new videos as soon as they drop!!

This is absolutely incredible. This is one of those things that actually gives me hope that maybe we can turn around and be better. Zipline is doing fantastic work and I hope they grow and grow. The success is well deserved.

I have fallen in love with Rwanda after seeing this video.
You have a beautiful country and a great community. Much love from Germany! And thanks so much for making these videos, Mark! ❤

Mark, it is great to see a video like this from your perspective. I work with many of the drone companies from small to large building, testing, and implementing these new ideas. Knowing that this video will reach so many warms my heart. Along with the joy I get from working with smart teams like those at Zipline. Thank you for telling this story through your unique lens.

Honestly kinda glad and proud/happy that somebody not only beat Amazon to the punch with drone delivery, but was also extremely impressed with how effective these are

It's super great that Mark is using his massive audience to promote things like this. Knowing that this company can solve so many issues at once is such an amazing thing. I loved the idea of a bigger version for an ambulance. There's many incidents where time is absolutely valuable. If emergency services took advantage of this, hospitals can transfer patients to less-populated hospitals in case of a massive overflow of patients. I'm absolutely happy for it

Mark, you never disappoint! What an incredible story - thanks for sharing it.

Abdul you are an inspiration!

Watching this one made me so emotional. So much resilience, knowledge and hope in a place, my naïve mind would never have thought of. Humans can be amazing or a nightmare. Thanks Mark for educating us and spotlighting these amazing companies, people and country.

Although I always love your large build videos, it is videos like this that are really my favorite!   Thank you, Mark, for always striving to show how awesome learning is and for inspiring those who will make this world a better place!

I had absolutely no idea that this was a thing. What an amazing use of drone technology. I'm so impressed by the efficiency and robustness of this operation. Massive kudos to all involved.

Very true!  I couldn't have said it better!

This is extremely generous of you!

W

Dam

​@Sheepboi-fm8fw  that's what I said! SOOOOO generous of him! 😊

😱

W

W

200 dono and no reply by mark NOO WAY!

Bro please give me 50 dollars 
I am not able to go to college because the frees are not being filled in my college frees 🙏

if only governments could be so forward thinking. some of these companies are so outstanding and sometimes politics seem so stuck in the past. i guess this depends on where you live and what you believe in but i hope for a better, happier, healthier and more sane society in basically every way.

Dude, rather than waiting for people to do stuff, why not start yourself?

Мы должны быть этими самыми людьми❤

1000000000 % !!

Ес оф косс🎉

realllllllll

🎉🎉🎉😢

Beesechurger what are you doing here

 @Arkansasball  seriously tho

yeah, if you go by the standard of happy go lucky content suited for normies who don't want to be challenged by reality.

 @cagneybillingsley2165  yea

you aren’t Mark WhaTs App

It's not about the views, it's about sending a message, especially with this theme

@AntVaz  but the more views the more people who get message

It's cool to see Zipline be a market disrupter --- even if the main result is to get Amazon off their lazy butts and innovate better drones!

Amazon abandoned this drone stuff because it's honestly a flawed idea in so many ways. How do you drone deliver to apartments? In all weather conditions? Is it truly better than vehicles?  After all vehicles carry more than one packet at a time. Then he proposed a solution that is practically a rescue helicopter but "silent" as if the problem with those are that they're too loud.

 @CrYpt001  you're thinking about it all wrong --- nobody said drones would completely replace trucks --- it's simply a great idea for certain use cases and certain types of environments --- it will work fabulously once the FAA approves autonomous drones for commerical use

You sir, are the kind of people the world will never cease to need.

I’m less than 3:00 in and I’ve already said, out loud to myself despite being alone in my apartment, “wow, that’s really impressive…”

I am an amateur drone pilot and I honestly never thought anyone would solve the drone delivery issue (noise and precision landing).

This is… Awesome. That’s the only word I can think of.

12:20 lol pvz music

Mark: I really enjoy your videos, but this is especially precious. Please do more of these types of videos... they're heart warming, educational, and inspiring. Peace ☮

Sure that goes well in any sort of winds

Hey Mark! Thank you  for all the work you do! In large part because of you, I decided to study engineering at my university and I absolutely love how my work is helping my community and all my fellow humans.

I was not expecting this emotional rollercoaster. Thanks from the bottom of my heart to everybody who made this video possible ❤

Thank you Mark!  It is super interesting and better yet - inspiring to go out and make the world a better place.

This is what Temple Grande wants to see.

So happy that you made a point of showing everyone what Rwanda is like. It is genuinely one of the most underrated countries in the world!

This is amazing

This is not only an amazing story, with amazing stories of amazing people within, but so refreshing to hear and see in media landscape filled with nonsense and negativity. ❤ Mark you are a treasure, and ideas and endeavours like Zipline are needed greatly, wish nothing but success for Rwanda and Zipline and everyone involved. Truly made my day watching this positive story.

Mom said being a doctor I could save lives, but being an engineer now I see I can save lives too! Mark you are an inspiration to me and I choose engineering because of you. Thank you!

Mark Rober is one if not the greatest human being I have ever witnessed,..,
From squirrels to everything else he has done,.,,  beautiful.,
I wish people like him were running all the countries,.,

I love love love this! I am a nurse and this made me tear up. It feels great to see how these drones are taking life-saving deliveries to remote areas in Rwanda. ❤

Long time subscriber Mark. Out of all the wonderful science and fun videos you have made, I think this your best.
Thank you for making and posting this. I am now looking at other ways I can personally support this incredible country.

My biggest concern that you didn't touch on Mark, is the FAA. That was the main reason Amazon's drone project failed. The FAA requires line of sight for drones, and there are massive no fly zones like near airports or most of Washington DC. This limits not only near drone deliveries (if in a place with a no fly zone) but also long range zone deliveries in the US (no line of sight). 

I'd be curious to see how Zipline is hoping to expand, at least in the US given these considerations.

That's a really cool company.  TY!

Outstanding content once again Mark.  Highlighting those making a positive difference through ingenious engineering.

This video is so amazing on so many levels. First of all, I had no idea this was going on, and I had never heard of a Zipline before. The speed and accuracy involved in getting these orders out is incredible, and watching that drone take off is a sight to behold. Thank you for presenting this video. Abdul is so inspiring! This is a perfect example of how technology and perseverance can benefit humanity.

I was literally tearing up multiple times during this video. Thank you for bringing this amazing company the extra interest it deserves.

The roof's

 @TheWorldsLargestOven  graze the roof indeed

Yes. The country has gotten past its violent period and is now pushing forward.

Yet it is being trashed by the U.K. Labour Party , as they are against Migrants/Asylum seekers being sent there whilst their cases are being decided. 

If they watched this, they might try and get a direct ship there, and miss out the U.K. as a bad plan in the first,place .

Same! I've always wanted to do mechanical because of Mark, but I'll probably be going into electrical. However I am going to make it a point to minor in Robotics, Coding and Physics because of the love he's instilled in me for these subjects

Go make your mom proud! ❤

I did a career day yesterday for year 6 kids. One said she wanted to be an engineer.  I said hey FOLLOW M ROBER! She said she knew him already and is now going to do his engineering course, after a little push from me :D

you mean no bricklayers build a hospital ?

Make no mistake, everyone in the entire supply web is saving lives.

It's all about scale --- a great doctor can only see 30-40 patients a day --- but a great engineer can literally affect billions of lives with an innovative idea

 @fredwerza3478  A great idea which he can rarely build by himself himself in any appreciable quantity - never at large scales - and which he almost certainly created by building on the ideas of others. When it comes to technological innovation, we are deep into the "team sport" era and I don't see it ending.

A doctor can save lives one at a time. An engineer can save lives a million at a time. Everything that a doctor (or anyone else) uses is designed by ... engineers.

 @daveandrew589  both need each other, the equipment needs to be used by a trained professional

Medical Professionals are REACTIVE.
Engineers are PROACTIVE.
Choose wisely.

‎‎‎‎‎E

 @EEEEEEEE  WHAT

In 2022, Zipline became the first company to receive FAA Part 135 approval for long range drone delivery in the U.S., a major step toward scaling domestically. The FAA recently authorized Zipline to enable its autonomous Detect and Avoid (DAA) technology, which is our autonomous airspace deconfliction tool, which is a key step in the path towards long range drone deliveries in the U.S. without visual observers. Zipline will soon be turning on its DAA system in the U.S., and expects that it will begin beyond line of sight flights in the U.S. later this year. (this info is from the zipline press kit)

​ @dathannguyen1901  derpy people can't fathom laws being amended to confirm to society's needs. They keep talking about it like there's this law that is set in stone.

This is the comment I was looking for. You can get a waiver from the FAA for BVLOS but it’s a lengthy process and very limiting. It will be interesting to see how the FAA will better integrate UAS into the NAS. They may have to rework some airspace regulations to provide required separation between maned aircraft and UAS

Way more useful in rural areas anyways. Might be easier to get FAA to approve for Idaho than DC

It's the same in the UK, lots of no fly zones not just around big airports, and line of sight is always required, even when doing fpv you legally need a spotter to check for any nearby aircraft.

What exactly is line of sight for drones?

 @mystic_galaxies9832  You have to see it at all times.

 @mystic_galaxies9832  the person responsible for it needs to be able to see it

I feel like with tons of engineering and a very lengthy testing process, they could implement it in some way. It definitely would not be in the capacity of the video, but similar. It would be mucchhh harder to do in the US

The Wikipedia page for Zipline touches on this issue and some potential solutions

How dare you do challenge the perfect world depicted on this video where everything is nice, everybody is happy and the video is cirurgically planned to not look like blatant advertisement? Also Rwanda is a human rights paradise!!

yeah other concerns include weather problems and subsequent unemployment as a result of a large retailer switching from van delivery to this

i don't think they fly as high as an airplane

 @Coristic121  doesn't matter. You cannot use a drone near an airport

 @Coristic121  airplanes at airports fly as low as uh, 0 feet so yes drones would interfere.

 @Coristic121  It doesn't matter. The FAA rules are very specific.

same! what that boy said that every drone that he saw overhead means someone being saved got me bigtime!

The future of investing is here with Versidium! Can't wait to see the returns.

What an incredible feat of engineering. I love the work that Zipline is doing!  ❤

As an engineer I feel very proud to see this. 👍

That's super awesome. My initial thoughts are how accurate are the parachuted boxes so that they don't get stuck on a roof or in a tree and how they don't hurt someone if the box collides with someone. When Mark tried catching it, it looked to have some velocity to it.

And I'm curious how Zipline would handle mass housing like apartment complexes or condos.

I really hope these drones get revolutionized

14:24  
wait whatt ?
howw ??
how can be a drone this quite ?
zipline should patent this quiteness , 
they would get 100 times more richer by the upcoming decade

This is honestly the best part of Marks channel because he promotes smaller companies spread so we can have a better cleaner future

Mark , thanks for sharing this with the public. Technology has provided so many more life-saving advantages than most people can imagine! I feel that life will be better with this technology because of the reduction of use in our natural resources.

you know? a company im working on does the ambulance helicopter. they even does private jet for that.

Such a beautiful story and so well presented! This is the most inspiring thing I’ve seen in a long time. Thank you Mark for doing what you do!!

That dude's Ragnarok shirt at 8:34 is pretty fire.

Thanks Mark! This is very impressive! I do like seeing those deliver life critical products versus some crappy $5 Amazon orders. Truly inspiring!

They should just make a delivery blimp drone ship

I have to say something as someone who has visited Rwanda quite recently that you have done an amazing job giving a beautiful and accurate portrait of this amazing country. The inventiveness and the inspiration to create better there is something that I have never experienced before and companies and people like this truly inspire me for the future. Thank  you Mark for lending your voice and platform to such an amazing country, people, and sense of hope. I truly believe if we could all embody a little more of Rwanda we will all be better off.

I try so hard to get my little nephews and nieces to watch this channel instead of the usual nonsensical, loud cash-grabs that prey on young minds. Mark talking about "building up resiliency like a muscle" with the "it's okay to fail/experiment/crunch" section at 13:42 is one of the best qualities a young person can adopt, imo. Thanks for producing outstanding content that everyone can enjoy!

I'm glad to see a channel this size appreciate the progression of life on this side of the planet.

Mark's new videos always bring interesting scientific and technical information😂

I like how you present the invention with an impressive storyline, also I am mesmerised by the little inventions that shape the journey of the inventor later on in life!

You not only make a video that shows how amazing people can be, but always manage to make a video that tugs at those heartstrings as well.  Love the work you put in for these!

Thank you  Mark for creating valuable content in your videos. Your dedication to science and engineering is inspiring, and I appreciate the way you explain complex concepts in a clear and engaging way. I look forward to seeing what you create next

I think you'd need a landing zone for the dropped parcels, so anywhere with a car park or patch of open grass would probably be sufficient. I think the same for apartments, maybe a locked box on the roof that either residents have the key to, or even pedestrian postel workers could go round and collect/deliver for that building.

He said that it the City they would use the drones that lower themselves down with incredible accuracy. But I do wonder if there has been a close call with the medical drops in Rwanda

Easy, props are huge. and the drone is not under load... thus the props are only spinning at 10% power.  While a hobby drone requires 50% power to just lift off.   If you put a package on the drone for what it's designed for, the sound would be louder than any of these.

fr

"I truly believe if we could all embody a little more of Rwanda we will all be better off."
HAHAHAHAHAHAH

​ @THESLlCK if you are laughing at that, I have no doubt in my mind you completely skipped the part of the video where Mark was talking about the country

MY EARSSS!!

WHAT? I CAN’T HEAR YOU. TRY YELLING LOUDER

 @l-l  haha nice one!

OKAY

Now i want to work in the company of zipline

18:55 mark those already exist, its called a helicopter with ziplines.
Edit: on second though helicopters aren’t the same as marks idea

I 100% of the time enjoy your videos. You present things so they are reachable and tangible, and seem to always want to teach. These are among my highest values!  Thanks again for doing what you do!

Mark, this is the first time I've watched a video of yours. I would like to congratulate you on the excellent content. It's really incredible what ZipLine does

to save more lives or send more food what we really need is: "Beam me up Scotty."

What an amazing fella, came from so much heart ache to go on and literally save people's life's. His parents would be over the moon with what he has done for humanity 🧡🧡🧡🧡

I first heard about Zipline back in 2019, and to see the people behind, their mindset and that they managed to survive these years is both inspiring and satisfying to watch. Thank you for creating this.

I'll be honest if instead of dedicating only 1 out of 10 videos a year to how people are changing the world for the better you were to do 2 or even half of them I not only will still be happy about, I'd probably be happier. As much as I love your fun and sillier videos, these are the ones that I love the most and stay with me a long after the first time I watch them. And even more importantly, they give me hope for humanity and future, which is always important. :)

Hard not to cry and be touched by so much of this video

Really happy to see videos on Zipline starting to get to millions of people. My mother has worked there for two years and I have always felt bad that they haven’t received the publicity they deserved, but I think they r finally getting it. Thanks Mark, your videos always make me happy.

Thanks Mark, what a great story and a fantastic literal life saving innovation by Zipline coupled with such a minimal environmental impact 😊

This video was super cool, I didn’t realize how practical drone delivery was becoming and it’s inspiring and amazing. Thank you for the video!

This idea came to me about 4 years ago after I faced a terrible delay in an important order. I am now studying engineering and learning programming to achieve this goal. I never imagined that I would be this happy to see this idea become a reality.

As always, so inspiring and giving hope for humanity. Wow I am blown away with Rwanda’s resilience. Mark thanks so much for all your efforts to keep on inspiring so many young lives. My utmost respect for you. I’m a teacher from SA teaching ks1 kids in China. I wish we can do more for the kids to be inspired by things like this.

Mark you and your team are such rock stars!  Thanks for making your content.  I plan to show this to my engineering classes this coming week to remind them that engineers change lives and the world!

Hey Mark! I have loved watching your videos over the years. I think I’ve watched all of your videos on this channel now about two times. You have inspired me at almost 30 to go to engineering school. And videos like this keep me motivated to continue down this path! Thank you so much for your work at NASA, and for making videos to inspire others to make this world a better place. I hope I get to meet you or work with you one day! Wish me luck on my applications

Amazing video as usual Mark! These drones really can change the whole scene of delivery. The quietness of the drones is superb. Abdul's story is really inspiring as well.

This is really inspiring. Thanks Mark for using your channel, which is a big platform, to share these kind of stories and spread hope to the world

Very rarely does a new technology give me that feeling of pure awe and excitement. But seeing those drones take off and come back gives me goosebumps. What an incredible feat of engineering with such a great cause behind it.

Imagine the same system using a lighter than air mother ship. A mini blimp mother ship with multiple cabled drop ships simultaneously delivering packages to several houses at once. The blimp would be  significantly more energy efficient than a larger drone with a single package and drop ship.

Have you ever been near a helicopter when it lands?

 @centurion7744  i mean wouldn’t be louder with 4 motors?

Those who have had war forced on them value peace the most.

His silly stuff grows the channel and extends his brand

Could not agree more. 1 a year for the things that seem so much more important

I'll be honest: Same. I love seeing his inventions, but I'd much rather, at this point, he use his great reach to inform about engineers already out there that can inspire new engineers themselves because of an idea they put together by thinking like an engineer, rather than simple and cute toys, or not-so-simple upgraded toys.

Thing is. He does need something thats both interesting enough, innovative enough AND worthy  of both his time and financial gain in youtube video form.

 @cherrydragon3120  Oh, I 100% agree. But, I also can confidently state that there's more than just a single possible video a year to make about interesting engineering innovations like this.

Won't the drones pose a danger to all of the flying cars we have?

​ @MarkHarrison-bo3kf  no

agree.

For sure

I am way too impressed with this video

No

 @saucyboi7789  Why not? There are an equal number of flying cars and delivery drones in American skies.

...rock stars?

this one gives me a both awe and excitement, i wish i could own those

2:22 LOL

0:01 finger making lunch? I didn’t know lunch did that now

11:18 That handshake was personal

19:02 Sir you make such an ambulance please sir 🎉

0:15 and touchdown we are save on someone backyard *food deployed*

I am from Indonesia, I have an inspiration for delivering food or goods very efficiently. Thank you Mark

I’m going Rwanda! That place looks GORGEOUS

Towards the end of the video, when that kid off the street came up to Abdul, the complete look of trepidation, fear, and respect just melted away to mutual geeking out and admiration was absolutely delightful.
Thank you.
Thank you @MarkRober for bring us this.
Thank YOU Abdul for not only forwarding the current cause, but leading the future march. A true humanitarian and totally awesome dude, dude.

“ 2:22 and everybody knows, they know im mark rober making mars rovers “

This needs to be implemented in the Caribbean cuts traffic congestion of delivery. I’m saying this should work Elsewhere

I just want to say thank you for producing this very insightful piece.  I'm a drone operator, so I came here to learn more about drones and ended up learning some fascinating insights about Rwanda.  I was brought to tears when I saw the young boy sharing his home-made Zipline drone.  Beautiful.  Thank you.

Your entire video was excellent; however, the last minute struck me the most. It is beautiful to see Zipline's impact in Rwanda and how it inspires young people. Thank you for making this video!

Mark is just pumping out quality, mini documentaries monthly. it's nuts. GREAT JOB :)

I interviewed with these guys 5 years ago when they were just being labelled as a unicorn company. I didnt make the cut but can confirm the team down there was and is (the ones who are still there) top-notch engineers 🛩. I really liked their approach to doing business internationally and creating jobs/ownership with the communities they were operating in. Great video. Everyone should know about their work!

I would like to see this come to Thailand.

As a regular human being, it makes me happy to see a community growing together as one and the drone ambulance is a great idea and would really benefit us in the long run. Great video!

Thank you Mark for spending a video on a cool initiative like Zipline. It is so touching to see a different side of the world, full of talented people ACTUALLY trying to make difference. It brought me tears of joy and thankfulness watching this, knowing the difference that is being made in a country like Rwanda that I know via Compassion International.

9:39 rekt.

You know what... I am going to start learning engineering. Thank you, Mark. These stories are incredible!

Saw a video about this when they were just beginning. Still at the same place in life. Quite a reminder. Get up and do it. Time flies.

🥺🥺🥺

Local ownership is SO important - there's a LOT of Western companies, maybe especially tech companies, that closely guard ownership so that profits from other countries, especially developing countries, get sucked straight out of there and into the pockets of Western stockholders.  It often becomes extortionary, taking every penny that can be squeezed out of desperate locals who need the product or service, leaving them vulnerable to complete destitution if the company decided to pull out of the market or if the locals can't afford to keep paying again and again. I don't believe in altruistic capitalism, but it's a big improvement if there's local ownership, because more profits will stay in the local economy and people can more safely rely on a local service because the people who supply and maintain it aren't gonna leave on a whim.

with the current cost of ambulance in USA i think a drone pickup is more viable

 @fltfathin  yes I agree such a cost save and way quicker as Mark pointed out in the vid which is amazing to think about yk

As a generic youtube commenter I agree.

11:27 rip.

Bro this comment translate to a.m. direct.

​ @Lettredettre انت ايضا😂😂😂

He can decide later.
Sometimes you end up having to do it all, kind of :)

What type of engineering? There's Industrial Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Software Engineering, etc.

No you're not. Just the way you phrased it proves that it will never happen.

 @mikemondano3624  wut? Why so much negativity lmao

 @mikemondano3624  why be so mean?

Covering the intersection between amazing engineering, inspiring life-saving efforts, and things that will change our lives for the better, this video is simply outstanding.  I would love to see you do even more of this type of topic.  This was incredible...

Congratulations sir, this is great moment for subscribers

This is so awesome. I wish we had it in Alaska. Not only did they close our post office, but for awhile the airlines were not accepting freight. (No roads to bigger communities) If we had a drone system here that could go the long distances, that would make it so nice. I love this and hope they keep expanding 👍🏼

The people at Zipline are amazing! Their designs are SO cool and intuitive!

Another amazing video. Mark, you are a treasure to us all. This is so cool! Especially their propellers that are so quiet. I fly RC everything and have always hated the noise from drones. Those propellers seem to solve the noise problem. Congratulations to Zipline for an amazing deliver system. Gives us hope for the future!!

❤this is incredible I love and sending this story to all my friends 🎉

Love the content Mark, always sharing amazing information and making the world a better place. Really admire you!

Mark we all love everything you do and how strong your passion is for engineering. Your engineering kits for children are incredible but most parents can’t afford these kits, please think about it and see if can help those that can’t. Thank you!

Mark, the way you saved that life so humbly is such an inspiration.

11:27 I would never touch a football field again if that kid was in 150000km radius near

Mark, this hands down is your best video you have ever put out. The inspiration, happiness, and optimism for the future filled my heart. I'd never considered visiting Rwanda, and like you, the only thing I really knew about the country was the genocide that happened many years ago. Seeing their neighborly love, community, and progress from such a terrible event is incredibly inspiring. You showcased some of the best of humanity in such a clear, well documented way and I know with 21M views this video lightened the hearts of millions across the world, just as it did mine. Incredible work, as always.

This IS mind blowing. Zipline is so impressive, it's so great to hear a story of a really ambitious idea that actually comes to fruition thanks to hard work and perseverance. Nicely shot and narrated as always Mark!

Im always hyped to watch the 1 video about introducing the world to new and amazing stuff, it really shows how much you do care about the world by using your influence to help better it. Love the work you do Mark!

Rwanda sounds nice I might go there oneday, also the drones sound like a cool idea

Honestly a more inspiring and emotional story than most films from the last 10 years. Made my day.

So proud of you Mark with crunch labs, you found a passion and love & turned it into something not only that pays the bills but also inspires young thinkers around the world.

6:53 I legit though he slapped his butt

Mark, this is one of my favorite videos from you. So inspiring and so connecting! Thanks for showing what people are doing to create a positive impact :o mind blown big time!

Amazing job Abdul and Zipline team, and thanks to legendary Mark Rober for bringing these efforts forward. Love you all 🥰

This was such a great video. Extremely impressive engineering, and impactful work being done by Zipline. The inspiring story of Abdul. The optimism of Rwanda as a country. And the infectious excitement of Mark. Every single thing about this video is awesome.

I have 2 questions though, that I wish Mark had covered:
1. How does ZIpline take care of preventing mid-air collisions with other flying objects (other drones, birds etc) while launching/catapulating? Once airborne, the drone can prevent collisions dure to their smart sensors, but how does it do that while it is still under the effect of catapulation?

2. How do they ensure that a package is not stolen when it is airdropped?

Other than these two questions, great video overall

truly was. Mark is a National Monument.

Zipline is a bunch of great people

Alaska seems like the best proving ground for these kinds of drones --- very little air traffic and lots of remote communities that need drone deliveries

 @kerzytibok3211  The hardest part would be managing and/or preventing ice buildup on the wings, something that causes many flight closures and delays in the areas so far North. Definitely should be possible, given the onboard battery, but not so simple as just heated wings.

There are actually a lot to small airlines. I’d be curious though how it would do in our kind of weather. Or if it could fly the distances we have. I’d love more details on it. And how much weight they could carry.

A rotary or quad rotor aircraft may do better with Icing protection since the high speeds of a rotor and/or prop could help prevent ice buildup on the airfoil (although ice would still accumulate on the airframe), but another challenge is keeping the batteries at safe operating temps.

Typically, lithium batteries don't like to go below freezing temps as the cold shortens the amount of battery life in a flight and some manufacturers note that the batteries should be above freezing before charging them.

However a solution that could be coming is hydrogen batteries. While I don't know what the temperature limitations would be on those,  they have insane endurance. The drone industry is shaping up to be pretty cool!

Yea that guy in Uganda would never got off the ground if he had to pay for that stuff

​ @safffff1000  Dude in Rwanda used milk cartons and plastic bottle caps. Pretty sure anyone can afford that. A curated lesson with crafted materials is going to cost more.

‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎E

‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎‎E

Ok why do I kinda want the zip-line drone it’s really cute

Thank you Mark for your dedication to learning, teaching, and sharing your passion in engineering. It is always a pleasure to see your videos. You have set some very high marks for yourself and that inspires other to do likewise. All the best to you, Ken :)

Mark is always doing new things and working hard to create content for us! Let’s just appreciate that!!

People like you and Abdul are living inspiration to fellow young engineers like me. Nothing but massive respect to you guys!!

So inspirational , makes me tearful

Mark, thank you! Seeing this was just amazing, both the engineering and the people of Rwanda. I'm an EE who loves to travel so this really hit home. Keep making your amazing, heart-felt content and inspiring the next generation. And, as an aside, I've always felt that a large-scale drone type (or ducted fan) vehicle would eventually replace helicopters for safety, if nothing else. That very large single point of failure keeping you moving but also alive has always worried me when I see helicopters.

19:00 super smart mark!!! But it already exists, it's called a helicopter 😂

If id seen this when i was in highschool i genuinely think my life would have been different. Amazing. I think this is the best adverts for engineering providing life saving solutions in different environments I've seen for ages.

Everything about the story in this video, is completely AWSOME...

Wow, this seriously made me tear up! The community of people sharing ideas, including kids, is so wholesome!

That is AMAZING!!! The Zipline founders should of won a Nobel, every year! Zipline, making the world a better place, and a happier one. Unbelievable job again Mark Rober.❤

I had no idea anything like this was even possible let alone already in existence! Mark is just incredible...I love these videos. The Rwandan people are amazing & a reminder to us all that love will always conquer hate!🇷🇼❤️🇷🇼

I just loved the video. Great positive message. Great highlight for that country.

A truly inspiring story.  This company is going to go places if the government doesn't get in the way.

It always makes  me optimistic to see these new, innovative companies striving to improve lives and society.
Thanks Mark for shedding light on one of them.

If greener companies like Zipline start getting more government contracts around the globe then hopefully the world can become a much safer, happier and greener place! Thank you for shining a light on and advocating for this incredible company Mark!

Truly an amazing story.

As an engineer that has been out of the development for far too long, this is inspiring. Thanks for sharing Mark.

wow what an inspiring story

WOW!! just wow! I am so impressed about the country, the benefits this company has for the patients and doctors, the moods portrayed in your reportage and about the quality of life these people seem to have regarding their countries history! Well done Mark. Thank you for this Video 😊

daily nba content here id really appreciate any feedback

E

W

The people of Rwanda had no part in engineering this. It's Western tech and it's only used there...

 @Nahmate1337  he never said the people of rwanda did.. he said rwanda was amazing

Yes, it's truly heartwarming to see people of all ages and backgrounds coming together to share their ideas and learn from one another. It's a great reminder of the power of community and collaboration.

Hello

Lol yeah because “government contracts” in the past have been great for the world in the past. 

Why not let the private sector handle things and have the government do what they do best??? Which is nothing.

Have to agree with ​ @chrisconley8583 . These Drones 
are tools that are delivering critical life saving medical supplies in a better way than what was available. But I do wonder why the hospitals don’t have these supplies on site.

They never went to the Moon

 @Turbo_Tastic you are really doing something! Keep trying!

remember to think like  a criminal that pretends to be an engineer.. in other words a NASA theft funded employee

 @Turbo_Tastic  citation?

you're here?

 @amillionlightreflections  i actually studied mechanical engineering like mark did, never got to use it though haha

Mechanical engineering to diving. Neat

this is the best thing ever, zipline should be a multi billion dollar industry. this is so cool, i aspire to be a part of the team of engineers that do these life changing things

I’m always so happy when mark posts, it doesn’t happen a lot, which makes it even more exciting

Mark Ive been following you for years and i just recently got my degree in engineering. You have motivated me to keep thinking outside of the box and enjoy the simple brilliance humanity can create with your videos! Keep being great

*Mario noises at 6:59

out of all the video's that i watch this has been one of the best in total explanation of a productplus the delivery. Keep up the excellent video's

I know it's kind of nerdy, but this piece goes beyond the nerdy factor and brings me much joy on so many levels. Especially knowing it takes place in Rwanda, close to Kenya, where refugees could really use something like this to get the things they need to survive. Thank you Mark!

You are such an inspiration. I have been in collage for two years studying robotics engineering, and you really inspired me to get here.  I have had some great opportunities with some really great places and at the end pf the day that all comes back to you and all of the amazing things you are doing on here. You are making a big difference to young minds, and changing the world.

Mark, you're one of my favourite people on this planet. (And I don't even know you personally). The way in which you present your videos, the content and the people is just awesome! Thank you. This project is unbelievably amazing and thanks for presenting Rwanda with so much positivity! All the best from Germany.

Что обидно, что многие годы люди больше вкладывали в боевых дронов, а тут, это же просто шикарно
Сколько жизней спасёт

Can we just agree that Mark needs to be protected at all costs. He’s such a great personality and fun teacher.

As a busy web developer I've been spending ~70 hours a week online since the mid 90's, this is the most astounding thing I've seen.
Well done Abdul, Well done!

How cool! Very hopeful stuff. You are a life  changer.  Thank you.

Love this! Abdul is so inspiring! Lost everything but is changing the world regardless! I love seeing his passion. 

A couple of questions came to mind as I was watching this video:  How do the drones work in weather such as wind, rain, storms, snow, freezing temps?  And then my second thought, I wonder as drones become more useful, if theft of these drones will become a problem?    So many package thieves out there, I could see them going for the bigger priced item!

This is fantastic. Mad respect to everyone involved.
Just wondering how long those batteries last, and to which degree they are recyclable?  
Cheers!

Wow. That has to be one of the most interesting and inspiring videos I've seen on youtube. Many thanks Mark for making this. Zipline is an amazing company that has a great future and I need to buy some shares in this

Very impressive!!
So happy you showed this .

I met these folks at Maker's Faire SFO in 2019 before the short range drones were a thing. They were happy to explain all of this stuff to a random college kid and his little brother, and I'm thankful for that!

Anyone else feel thankful and sad at the same time watching this. Happy for mark to be shining a light on amazing things that are happening around the world and one another truly helping each other . Sad because we can’t get such an amazing story covered in the news uniting the world and showing us there is an “us” and we can all work together to do amazing things... just a thought

This is one of the most satisfying stories I have seen in my lifetime.  To see this coming from Rowanda, after their setback as a nation is truly inspirational.  Excellent Presentation.

remember a video on the dude years there delivering meds.

he is like the engineer version of mrbeast

Mama mia

 @q5j-OutOfService-j5q  I was thinking more like the yahaaaa! But okay

True

What is kind of nerdy? Drones?

Lol. Collage?

Agreed ❤

Как раз наоборот. Я помню как начиналось. Энтузиасты-адруинщики собирали мультикоптеры ещё в 2010 г. И мало кто верил, что это выйдет за пределы игрушек. А боевые стали только последние годы собирнать.
Никого технические изобретения не спасут. Одни бомбы и гранаты с них летят, а не пица-пепперони.

Абдул работает
Ну Абдул владеет

You need to grow up

the video was chock full of info. Maybe you missed the short segment where he showed drones taking off and landing in driving rain. They can handle the weather. I assume a lot of trial and error went into making them weather-hardy as well.

Changing the world hoping people don't Have to go trough the tragedy he went trough

I was thinking the same thing about the thieves, but after reading your comment I gave it more thought and realized that it would not be worth it at all for the thieves. They would have to some how find where the GPS system is inside of the drone and take it out before they got caught (which would probably fast considering they can tell it is stolen immediately), then it would also be nearly impossible to re sell since only the cabin drops out and then cabin has nothing of use. It has no controller to come with it, and no real way to figure out how to fly it without being really smart. So although I am sure thieves could use it as a trophy, it would not make any sense money wise.

 @sgn4862  this company is scrappy and adaptive. If they had an issue with theft, they would make it not worth the thieves while, i.e. too troublesome to target them. As others said, drones are tracked. They know within the minute when it delivers and where, and so do the receiving customers. They could include video surveillance on both the drone and the zipline unit.

my best guess for the theft aspect is that every drone will be fitted with a GPS tracker, and will have the doors on said drone sealed/locked shut until the package is acutally delivered.

My guess is the batteries slowly degrade over time but they could still use the degraded batteries for shorter deliveries.

Isn't it great?

As a Canadian citizen, I hope that this will be able to expand to all of the countries that it can, and hopefully, it will expand to the country that I live. This would be an absolute life saver.(both metaphorically and physically)

I love this innovation delivering life-saving materials or even just really necessary things to people in remote areas!

For buying consumer items in cities though, I think I'd rather have a walkable mixed-use community where I can get almost everything I need
But in those other necessary instances, seems like an great invention!

Thanks for sharing Mark!

Mark never disappoints with his content, thanks for always being entertaining and inspiring!!

We have countdowns on our lights in the US!!

Thank you for your message at the end, Mark. Been going through a really tough time lately with mental health. This video, especially the experiences of the resilient individuals represented, helped change my perspective on how blessed I am.

10:50 Monke :)

I used to live in the far south of the South Island of Nz. Since the roads were so windy there it was faster to use helicopters as ambulances than to use a traditional ambulance (if they needed to do a hospital transfer or something like that). I really like the idea of drone ambulances and could see them being so helpful worldwide.

9:10 wait America doesn’t have this?

As an engineer I never felt this proud before❤

This video is truly remarkable! While the benefits of consumer delivery are noteworthy, I believe the real heart of the story lies with drones playing a pivotal role in saving thousands, if not millions, of lives. Abdul's journey is equally inspiring – self-teaching engineering applications and ultimately becoming an engineer through YouTube is nothing short of extraordinary! The video not only highlights technological advancements but also sheds light on the positive developments in Rwanda. Overall, an exceptionally well-crafted and impactful piece. Impressed by the content and the positive change it represents!

This is a wonderful message of hope for us all if we choose a cooperative society.

Que incrível, tomara que um dia venha para o Brasil também

Congrats to Zipline for coming up with something so innovative! Quick question though: When the city drones become much more common and used, how will the drones not hit other drones? Would there be a navigational system similar to ones at airports? Would they use sensors on the drones instead? Really curious about it!

3:25 it lands safely does it

This Is POWERFUL!!!!!!

엄청난 혁신입니다
이런일이 6년전부터 였다니 놀랍습니다

대한민국에도 빨리 도입되면 좋겠습니다

응원합니다! zipline!

Dude, this is an EXCEPTIONAL video.
VERY well done with the storyline and pacing of the content. This kind of practical optimism is what the world needs!
SUPER immersive bringing us along with you and your fun adventures in Rwanda -- makes me want to travel there.
and most importantly, THANK YOU for introducing me to this amazing company and the potential of the concept in various, creative and inspiring ways.

Mark, you are a legend.

2:22 bro predicted the future

2:22 That aged horribly

2:22 That aged well…

modern day balto

I live in a city that’s tripled in size over 10 years and walkable wasn’t a thought in the expansion. The outskirts it’s housing and gas stations at the entrance of neighborhoods. It’s a ten minute drive for new comers to get the grocery store and that’s not accounting for new house built further away still. This drone system is useful in a city like this.

+

Well why don't we mix the drone into mixed use areas for people with disabilities or the elderly, and they could make a drone that could bring the stores stock to them

 @bouncyvenus  You can literally have a person do that and create more jobs.

Monke

🦧🎩

No. Ape.

No. Ape.

​ @jordanbaszner904 didn't ask

That's interesting to hear! The use of helicopters as ambulances in remote areas is not uncommon, but drone ambulances have the potential to be even more efficient and cost-effective in some cases. As demonstrated in the video by Zipline, drone technology can allow medical supplies to be delivered quickly and accurately, even in areas with challenging terrain or limited infrastructure. This could potentially save lives in emergency situations and improve access to healthcare in rural and remote areas.

Throw the patients out at the hospital...

Nope

In Brazil there is

ครับ โดรน ดูล้ำสมัยมากครับ  
🤗 ผมเอง ก็สนใจ ไม่น้อยครับ😊

Tu sabe o que ocorreria né? Os caras roubam caminhões de cargas. Roubar um drone(com a encomenda) seria trivial

 @SergiodeMirandaCosta  só que como eles voam alto talvez fosse difícil roubarem/quebrarem o drone, e tinha que ter sempre alguém já esperando a carga para não roubarem

A Caixa Chegaria Quebrada

I think one thing they could do is set aside different elevations for different directions. Wanna go north? 500 feet. East? 700 feet. Then there could be a set speed to where they don't catch up or fall behind each other. In the video, they also had cm-precise GPS so that would help too.

There almost certainly is a navigation system on-board already.

There is a system called ADS-B with which aircraft can transmit their current position. Transmitters and receivers are small enough for drones. That could work for other drones, but the challenging part would be small planes that don't have to carry it. There probably needs to be some computer vision component which is the "last resort" to avoid collisions. And they won't be allowed near the approaches to airports.

Simple answer, GPS. Long answer, Coding.

ADS-B systems for airplanes are being developed for Drones. which means all drones with ADS-B will see each other.

 @Ezzell_  yep but it doesn't solve the problem of drones/planes without ADS-B and that using ADS-B for collision avoidance essentially means an exclusion zone of multiple hundred meters for every drone using it and much more for any aircraft carrying Humans. That could get problematic quickly.

South Korea is dying

Fr

lol

Fr

Fr

Fr

LMFAO

Fr

Fr lol

Every body knows

read my mind

 @AluxGamez same

I’M IN THE

I’m in the thick of ……

Everybody knows

Yeah

They know me where I go

I skied in and they froze

I'm completely lost. What is everyone talking about.

oof

From the screen to the ring to the pen to the king where’s my crown that’s my bling always drama when I ring…

Everybody knows

Lol

Lol

Haha lol

Kinda

Fr

Me encanta el canal!!, gracias a CDM descubrí mi gran pasión por la exploración espacial

Very well produced! It’s worth a like and follow

Thailand should have something like this too.

I love everything about these ideas!

Mark, this was real eye opener.  You absolutely delivered this message! Well done.

With almost the same history with Rwanda, we need this technology solution in South Sudan. Today!

Nah New Jersey gotta be terrified when they see this 💀

This is my favourite video on your channel

This is so amazing I’m almost crying

Zipline looks to be super cool, and saving lives too.  Excellent video, informative and entertaining.  Well done Mark.

Mark Rober, you won my heart very quickly because you live engineering the way I want to do it, I hope to be like you one day

"which lands safely using a parachu-" PAAMMM

My dream job is to be a engineer and I watch you every day and you motivate me and make me happy

I love technology and engineering ...   GREAT video.  I think my favorite (most uplifting) part was learning more about the wonderful people of Rwanda

he got absolutely owned by the soccer kids lol

Video suggestion:E/VTOL Air taxis

it's amazing solutions, Abdul is a legend! Respect to Abdul 😍👍

That would definitely be great to be put into action in the Philippines helping people living in the provinces

great way to take care of medical needs and a well done video!

Just applied a job opening at Zipline!  Such a great video!

Amazing is an understatement to describe this. Just love it ❤

Incredible!!  Go Rawanda

1 question, how would zipline city drones work for appartments without balconies

mr.Abdul you are one of the noblest people i have ever seen

One thing I can’t stop thinking about is the lines on the drones and the drones themselves, how are they stopping other drones from hitting them and the lines, this will be important when the entire system becomes way more upscale

2:22  KSI’s inspiration🥹🥹

Congrats for such an informative video and the creators of this technology. You had me at fishing pole!

Youtube+my son+safari+money+engeneering="soooooooooooo cooooooollll and sooooooo funnnnn"

Habría sido el meme de "lo cambia todo" de portada jajaja

Esperamos que isso salve mais vidas, viva a tecnologia e a engenharia

Cant we just have big 6 ton automatic planes like this

Suddenly there was the song Graze the Roof 😭

I really like Mark Rober because he gets these awesome companies out there without them sponsoring him because his revenue comes from his channel and now with crunch labs.

increible contenido. Me has dejado sin palabras. Me suscribo

Imagina isso em São Paulo enroscando nas pipas e caindo!

I love this.  Beautiful video and amazing product!

Will there be a traffic safety equivalent agency to prevent collisions in mid-air?

That’s absolutely insane. I wanna be an engineer so bad!

Jeeh-suss! That's incredible. The whole countrys development seems to be lightyears ahead!❤❤❤

Precioso video... De verdad uno recupera la fe en la humanidad ❤

great video and inspiring  👏 👏

2:22 flashbacks…

As a Kenyan, I am eager to have Zipline operating in my rural communities delivering the medical essentials.

Great video- I’ve watched a lot  of your videos- positive attention on Rwanda super impressive and inspiring- Abdul’s story is amazing- shared this video to almost literally everyone I know- thanks

The food robots on the campus of Oregon State University could benefit from aerial delivery. An aerial delivery would travel from the base to the destination on the opposite side of 15th street. Not only do the land bots need to wait for traffic on the street, they need to navigate a large parking lot.  They stop at every entrance to every row whether a vehicle is coming or not. That includes even when the lot is empty.

Exactly like in Argentina, my country, except for the taxis. 9:19

I really wish your CrunchLabs toys were more accessible in Brazil. There's truly nothing like them here—or anywhere else in the world! My son would absolutely love them, and they’d be an amazing addition to his education...

yo mark rober one fo the best engneer and funny and amazing content but my favorite of this all is the squirrel  series i like those espically pls make more plss

2:18 MARK IS A TIME TRAVELER

a drone or a lightweight VTOL?

I could be wrong but I think that when this finds its way to America that we'll see a spike in the sale of drone-net guns.

2:21 AHHH

3:56 bro its literaly fishing airplanes

0:08 *arrives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * leaves the package                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *He's leaving

The new drone revolution,  zipline,

Not in EU, we have EASA so strict even birds have to register a licence to fly 😂

Mark is amazed by the traffic lights with the counting down the time
residents of a country called Russia oh we have one in every province

Все это весело и круто, такие дроны как раз у нас летают, только они вместо посылок с медикаментами несут на себе бомбы которые убивают людей.

2:22 bro predicted everything...

POV looking around caustically 5:58

I WAS LOOKING FOR THIS FOR SOOO LONG

Wwwhat

This video refuelled my hope for humanity. :)

love this channel

Ayyyyy it’s Dr. Léon!!!

Love your videos. This one touched my heart. 🙏🙏🙏

Can we please just build walkable cities 🥺

Vídeo Batendo 29 Mil Comentários e Mil De Likes , Merecedor de muitos Mais Likes.... Parabéns Mark Brazil Agradece seus Vídeos

My dream is to work in Zipline one day

"a lot fafter than a car" -Mark Rober

I am watching this video and I'm lost for words

This is awesome!

Great video!

If you accelerate a human to 65 mph in 300 ms that human would no longer require a hospital.

What I just seen, so awesome

Excellent video

Mark hi, you still inspire me, I'll be eng too.

Im like watching a Dicovery Channel...only better and with enthusiasm.

Sounds great for humanity. Thank u

C’est trop super bien ❤👍

Absolutely cool.

Yea, dropping packages with precision. I wonder how this technology will be used.

Zipline doing the great job in Rwanda 🇷🇼 , and thanks to the Rwandan Government for their efforts in supporting new innovations

11:18 he almost ripped his arm off.

I'm 67 an never in my life did I think I would see such wonders that is fantastic I barely know how to make this phone work

nice video mark

Amazing to see what Zipline has done for a country like Rwanda! Can only imaging what this could do for other countries around that world that have remore populations in need of crucial supplies like medicines and food.

Thanks for sharing, Mark!

THEY DLIVER BABYS .WHAT THE HECK

Hello Mark and Team. We live in Papua New Guinea and are serving with MAF. PNG needs Zipline! MAF does medevacs on our planes but we're slower than these drones!

19:00 that's just a helicopter with a built in lift

Mark you are one cool dude! 😊

Thanx, Mark. Amazing and wonderful 💙🌻💙

Yay a new video finally

Wow🤯…such an innovation helping Africans and the world

Felicidades por tu excelente trabajo. Saludos de Puebla-Mexico.

That is just amazing I was blown away by this idea this is tech at it's best I take my hat to all the people involved , And for the idea of the ambulance that is brilliant that should be divelept with out doubt there some clever people out there willing to put there self's out to make these innovations come to life this was a great video thank you

Brilliant, not sure who to praise most, but well done all in Rwanda for the medical delivery system. Thanks ;-0)

12:27 PVZ SOOONG!!!

спасибо ютубу что порекомендовал твой канал. подписался. полезные и интересные ролики

This is the best video I have seen in months.  Beauty, plain and simple.  Thanks for bringing this to my and other people's attention.  
I have sent the link to many friends so they too can share in this inspiring example of what can be done.  

Peace and healing and prosperity are what engineering does best if given a chance, despite the origins of the engineering methods: warfare.  More peace, less war is based on the goodness of the people in power.  

As someone with a chemical engineering degree I am proud to see what you are doing. Both my father and I love(d) an elegant solution to a vexing problem.   

Now, about that packaging!?  How about animal feed or something more useful?

wow. wow. wow. I am very impressed

Willie Wonka and the CrunchLab factory!

admiration totale pour le génie de ces inventeurs de l'avenir

Great job 🎉🎉🎉

This would be a cool sim

this is my love thank chanel

que buen video recien me entero de estas cosas

Wow...for Abdul is extraordinary❤❤

Hermano. Es una gran labor ayudar a los niños a pensar como ingenieros. Yo personalmente creo que el futuro está en la ingeniería. Gran labor. Excelente. Bendiciones.

That's a big deal, brilliant

Love you bro 😮😮😮

Wow this is awesome

I need this for my own business 🎉😂❤

quero isso pra ontem pra ONTEM PRA ONTEEEMMMM!!!

Beautiful Country 😊

Thrilling!

is it more efficient to have a bunch of drones in the air carrying single items individually rather than 1 truck on the road carrying an equal amount of things?

Such a incredible video 😊😊😊
Very knowledgeable and amazing. Thanks for giving us information of the feature.

Super video, merci

Hello, i'm from Indonesia. It's great way to caring the humanity

Can we talk about wing drones that is already here delivering Walmart stuff to front lawns everywhere

this is really cool! 早く世界中で普及されてほしいですね。

How is this 1 year ago but I still don’t have this

This is so cool were in the future😊

Mieux équipé qu'en France 😂

Mark pls do you do 3d printing life size car 😊

Очень крутая компания  здоровья всем сотрудникам❤

Revolutionary

jusr crazy, very cool

Great content!!! Inspiring,  vital and beautiful! 😊❤👏🎉

super video, magnifique  merci

That'll be awesome 💯😮

WE NEED THESE THINGS IN BRAZILL!!! (I live in Brazil lol)

Amazing!

I have a question mark.  Do you do your hair and then put the hat on and then do your hair again? Lol

After this video I want relocate to Ruanda)0)

Nice job Zipline

Isn’t the ambulance idea just an ambulance helicopter?

Живые летающие объекты!(жло) И другие летательные аппараты! Берегитесь!😊.

es increíble eso seria bueno para Venezuela  como hay gente que vive en los llanos ose lejos 
eso ayudaria mucho a  mi pais

15:00 yo I watched that on tv like 10 times cuz this is so cool

Bravo super vidéo

I want these in British Columbia.

now Vampires can order blood at night

Amazing!

🇷🇼 Extraordinario país y que invención tan maravillosa producto de la constancia, la humildad, el deseo honesto de servir y la genialidad 🎉🎉

Bro is a top song from pzz, I see no reason to think that you are 1 because the flowers behind you will protect your brains.

sooooo muchhhh inspiring project i want more of like this personally /😍😍😍😍

Wow that's amazing

Amazing!

I would be absolutely honored to have blood delivered and my life saved by Mark Rober. 😂😂

Never will come to fruition

Awesome 👏

Happy Diwali Mark Ji

but the drone delivery's stops jobs in the city means more homeless?

Incroyable !!!

How was that two years ago yet? I haven’t even seen one in Franklin.

Why didn't your can of liquid in the beginning not have a shadow?

Espetacular 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻

In Ghana we are using Zipline for medical deliveries for a decade now. 
It's fast and convenient. 
Technology is now

Incredible!!!

My thought is if more cars are off the road, not only will there be less traffic, less green house gas, and so on. There would also maybe be less car accidents?

Huh how

 @matthewlinsleyschepis6618  lol

I wonder why drone blimps are not a thing. They can stay indefinitely in the air more or less

Maravilloso...😮😮😮que genios y que bonito cuando es eficaz el salvar vidas!! Un 💯

saya dari indonesia sangat senang menonton chanel anda... selalu menginspirasi..

15:26 imagine using this on helicopters you can't say look "ghetto bird"

I wonder what happens if you grab the cable connecting the cargo to the drone

I love this so much.

Muchas gracias

So cool, so ingenious

Watching this from Nairobi, Kenya in 2024....... we have a lot to learn from Rwanda 💯

Mark és o maior, continua...

Wow ! je n'imaginais même pas que cela puisse exister et cela depuis des années ! bravo au concepteur de cette solution qui a de l'avenir devant eux c'est extraordinaire! et Vive Abdul et le Rwanda et merci d'avoir partager cette vidéo ! je suis tellement fasciné par cette invention et qui sauvent des vies ! Mille fois bravo !

We totally need that Rwandan tradition of spending the last day of each month on communal edification.  Imagine how amazing the actual work product would be, especially once we each find our niche and focus on developing that particular skill, and then imagine the knock on effects from just exercising that community caring muscle, spirit of service, and the gradual building up of organizing knowledge and basic volunteer instincts.  There are so many benefits that I can see coming out of this small sacrifice, I can't believe this isn't more of a thing around the world.

Frankly, I'm inspired.

Mark.... This company is f'fing doing amazing things... HOW CAN I INVENST?

my school made us watch this for knowledge

Happy Diwali @MarkRober

Thank's for super skills for other's

무섭고 두려운 세상이 곧 다가옴을 느낍니다

But how do they have the blood?🫥🫥

amaon needs to use a drone to deliver to my door. I do not have a porch 😅

Почему не завезти запас лекарств  в каждую больницу ?

Awesome video

Envios de crunch labs a todo el mundo?

amaizing!!

we need this in the US

Здорово! Тысячи сталкивающихся дронов над головами тросики путающиеся в проводах...

mark is listening song from plant vs zombie 12:33

It's really amazing 😍

I actually made a cardboard model of Zipline’s gliding drone

Wait America didn’t have this. That’s a bummer.😢😢

How does Zipline delivery work in dense metropolitan where most lives in high rise apartments with no backyard or rooftop access?

Is Zipline a publicly traded company, I can definitely get behind this and invest!

This gave me outmost respect for Rwanda! My father is from Tanzania and Rwanda kinda mirrors Tanzanian values

Dey tok r dhaaabs!

im so amazed <3

Why do I want to cry😭

So Cool !

2:22 say that again?

0:38 :dr Kel 🗿

It's amazing 👍

10:53 life could be a dream

Incredible le engineering

Amazing thank u

Amazon has drone delivery where I live

Amazing video! loved it. I liked your crunch box idea as well. Any discount code you want to share to encourse the subscriptions ? Looking forward.

Perhaps the Ambulance Drone will be more a reality after they have successfully reverse engineered the UFOs.

Impressive

me as a Rwanda I am so proud

2:22 blud predicted

tats awesome

Great video. Rather than coming back gifting soccer balls, is buying their local soccer balls an option?

Super vidéo..😊! vraiment "Constructifs..👌🏾!" 
Je m’abonne..👍🏾

I'm empressed that's Rwanda ❤

Unfortunately, the drone can only take a parcel, and a car can take dozens. Alternatively, the parcel warehouse would have to be within a 5km radius for the drone to fly and return for another order.

Wow nice mind blowing information❤

Thanks!

Умничка, молодец!

très belle vidéo
Very nice vidéo

its amazing, incredible, its the future now!!

Incredible 😐👏👑

You can 't be saying you only make 10 videos an year 😮😮

Happy diwali 🎇🪔🙏

In Ghana naah their is no zip line central

L'idée de la fin c'est juste un hélicoptère silencieux

Wow and cool video

Abdul, that is super . ❤❤❤❤ what a team . I don't know if the company is profitable already, but  that is not the main point on this moment. I didn’t know that Rowanda is such a nice Country.  Ireland

I just realized someone in Rwanda has blood that was delivered by Mark Rober

❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤ ШИКАРДОС 🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉

4:56 la voz se parece la de futchunch

can the crunch lab be delivered to france? because i am french and i love everything that is robot or mechanical construction

Fenomenalny pomysł w Rwandzie.

Ojalá y llegue a mexico

Как поставить еще один лайк?
Превосходно!)

Question: Why EVA in the Dark? what do they hope to see when they poke their heads out?

🔥🔥🔥

Entregue no Brasil também

How do they create these legends?

14:30 even my portable fan is louder the the drone😂

“Lands safely” 
cuts to package being dropped like a sack of potatoes 😂😂
No but this is really cool. Stuff like this needs to be on the news more to maybe spark interest with other places to do amazing things.

Mark heared the voices 2:22

the Zipline company is amazing but I had a question, isn't better to keep all the med and blood in the hospital ?

true

Tôi mong Việt Nam sẽ sớm áp dụng công nghệ này vào nhiều lĩnh vực vận chuyển .

So it's a tethered 2-part unit.

Thanks for this wonderful story.   You taught me a lot about Technology and Rwanda !    The will to innovate to help people and save lives is simply incredible ....I'd much rather learn about stuff like this instead of the bullsht polices and politics of today.    Thanks for what you do!

what about the weather. like the weather is rainy and windy will be delivered.

So basically a base drops let’s say 50 drones, big drones and the big drones drop one little drone and that little drone can hold packages and then the big drone gives the packages to the little drone

I am from India and this is a nice video brother❤❤

Important question about the dilivrry drone, are trees any issue?

ya paso mas de un año y si hizo el cambio

Bentuk baling-baling drone itu mengingatkan saya pada bunga pohon yang menyerupai baling-baling yang anda sebut, "sekian juta tahun alam semesta membuat helikopter"

Mark: the future will be great!
The Future: skibidi toilet ohio rizz

For the human one imagine the people that are scared of flying to them this is the worst thing ever

i almost swear for the usless for food delivery .. because delivery easier using bikes.. but medical urgent delivery .. that new and reliability

Awesome

Amazing 👏👏👏👍

the ambulance drone... thats just a medevac helicopter, no?

Any update on this new design? I haven't seen anything being tested since this video

한국에서는 6살때부터   시험문제빨리 풀려고  인간계산기가 되기위해 
더하기 빼기를   수백개씩 하기때문에
저런 아이디어나 혁신은   만들어 낼수 없죠.

как то странно, монополия на кровь. почему больница не может иметь свой запас крови. Похоже на отмыв денег!

The "Amazing Invention – This Drone Will Change Everything" refers to a groundbreaking advancement in drone technology that has the potential to revolutionize various industries. Drones, or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), have already made significant impacts in fields like delivery, agriculture, surveillance, and cinematography, but this new invention promises to take their capabilities to a whole new level.

Если бы это было у нас, то груз исчез бы

А ещё дроны были бы сбиты бабками

A háttéri zene az nekem megvan videó játékos nem zenébe hanem játékba a zombis amúgy és nagyon jó😊😊

2:47 А откуда у них донорская кровь??????!?!?

Mack Rober porfavor  hacer una broma  de Bomba de Glitter 4.0 para  el MrBeast y Karl

Amazing!!!

Real life rancho from 3 idiots 🫡

Are they seen from an airplane? 

Do they get in the way of aviation?

Lekin pakshiyon ko to khatra hoga 
❤❤❤

Огромное спасибо за труд ! Очень интересный и полезный выпуск !

The future is wild lol

This is very incredible. The future of efficient and effective health care delivery products is here 👌💥

I hope zipline doesn't start working closely with the military =)

상장은 안할까? 종잣돈이라도 투자하고 싶은 회사.. 존경

2:21 Who told bro?

So, is everything changed now?😄

giant ambulance drone? as in a helicopter ?

What if this is the New Jersey drones?

I can imagine all those Rwandans thinking, why is this American shouting everything? Does he think we're deaf?

Eso de el equilibrio en las cabesas tambien lo hacen en guate a y mark mandame un paquete de crunch labs porque tengo 12 y vivo en guatemala

วากานด้าชัดๆ  สุดยอดคับ  ชื่นชมๆๆ

Have Jerry Trainer (Spencer from I-Carley) and Mark Rober ever been seen in the same place together or are they the same person?

Bro predicted the future 💀

Please,keep  my sky clear of these monsters.

Amazing

no sería un problema, si el gobierno no hubiera extraviado los planos e investigaciónes de la Antigravedad

Tristes los de mexico

ทึ่งกับใบพัด โดรนมากกก

Amazing people the Rwandans.

I wish the us had this

ITS BEEN TWO YEARS WHY DOES NO ONE USE THISSSS

This is really cool, but part of me feels like it’d be way too easy to knock down one of these drones and just take whatever’s inside.

amazing

Happy Diwali 🎉

2:21 you predicted the future.

Best ❤

Я Абдулу желаю успеха, ты меняешь жизнь людей к лучшему:goodvibes:

The capacity seems too small.  When I buy take out food for my family, there is at least a full bag of food, but after two bags three quarters full and a tray of 5 drinks.

💪

As a fellow rwandan it's cool

6:51 only the boys will understand this wild ah joke

우리나라도 드론 배달방식을 적용했으면 좋겠습니다.

This is like the Sam & Cat episode

19:40 Harry Potter...?

Đỉnh quá anh ơi😮😮😮

3:36 "Segurança"

big question how would this work with houses without gardens or apartments

10:16 personality😅

Didnt Amazon try to do this first?

Amazing Ciuntry love from Pakistan

Super 👍👍👍👍

Rwanda is real life Wakanda! ❤❤❤

What happen to zipline?  looks like a great idea

Super

2:19 Bro knew

Кондеционеры уже не те 😂

Zeppelin 🤣🤣🤣

Bardzo ciekawe rozwiązanie 💯👍

Ziplink bohot kamal ka h

Best start learning how to cook fresh meal .

Projeto incrível, glória a Deus 🙏🏼

Happy diwali 🎇

If this unmanned aircraft is on the same route as a commercial aircraft, is there a risk of collision?

It’s funny when mark said the guy studied engineering they showed him soldering. Engineering school looks more like doing lots of home work….

When the drones don't come back, will they try to charge you with theft?

Why when there launching the planes kinda remind me of that one kids show were their like transformers and they turn into planes and deliver stuff😂😂😂the

I’m gonna say one thing and if you break down things, they become very easy

2 years later, this has changed nothing. swing and a miss

pero la pregunta del millon seria, y los desempleados que ocacionaria?

Rwanda healed…wow, I needed to see this.  I’m still haunted by thoughts of the genocide 30 years ago.

Sometimes, unorthodox is the answer.

How doesn’t the hospital just keep the blood at well…. The hospital

How many people is this gonna put out of work?

У него 11 звуковых дорожек для видео!!!

It's refreshing to see Drones used to save lives instead of taking em😅

Cool

pls come to nigeria one of these days

Rwanda is waking up!

Cerdas sekali , kapan teknologi ini sampai ke negeriku indonesia

Great investment opportunity 👍

ahaha he didnt want to touch the "aids blood" and didnt edit out the quiet part out loud, what a champion influencer!

아파트나 빌라 같은 다세대 주택은 문앞 배달이 어려울 수 있겠네

😢 tadinho dos motoca 😢😢

Why do they also have drones

1:28, Wish bone propellers.

Só não entendi por que ele acha que um carro de 900kg entregaria um lanche. No brasil usmos motocicletas para essa tarefa.
I just don't understand why he thinks a 900kg car would deliver a snack. In Brazil, we use motorcycles for this task.

6:08 "i'm skeAh"

pero el producto si se da un madrazo al caer

i hope such technology come in INDIA , most needed

I'd call it a "wishbone" propeller or blade, that's what it looks like, and it is an answer to a wish... quiet... NOW if they can make QUIET FANS out of them, I will buy one.

i love your videos

impresionante, cuanto valdría un lote de 50 drones para domicilios en ciudad y 5 en el campo???. para traerlo a Bucaramanga Colombia. gracias

I feel like another big question for me is how many people are going to be out of jobs and what can we do to help those people

So what happened? 2 years ago now and never heard of this until 12.11.2025 through this video

Es interesante que nadie menciona que los drones fueron inventados por un mexicano, el Ing. Jordi Muñoz

Hola mi país es 🇨🇴 pero estuve en 🇩🇴

zepto and  blinkit in india be like delivery  with 10min

Thanks

try to go to thailand its great there

Describia una parte de Trauma Team ToT

집라인 우리나라에 많이 있어요😮

go Rwanda !  🌺

Big investment of your this technology please sir

Wow, Rawanda seem to be more pleasant than India

Happy diwali 🪔🪔🎇🪔

‎

Rwanda kalian mengagumkan 👍👍

Love❤❤❤

in which countries is Crunchlab available?

the zip technology is interesting, but I don't understand why the blood bag wouldn't be in the hospital but in the zip, is there a reason????
🇧🇷

If this thing delivers recreational marijuana we are in trouble!

Luar biasa kawan

399 for a year😢 my son would have loved this

Happy diwali 🎇🎇

لازم علينا فاي مجال رانا فيه نستغلو الهندسة لتسريع و تسهيل

Keren keren luarbiasa

You are bast you tuber I love you bro ❤️ bee Kand

Happy Diwali ❤

Penggunaan drone ini bahkan mengurangkan penggunaan petrol seharian❤ amat memberangsangkan😆👍🏻👍🏻 semoga drone juga berada didalam bidang penerbangan komersil juga

Preciso de um drone assim para fazer entregas de supermercado leves, me ajuda com 1 drone iria mudar minha vida e minha empresa

이 분 한국말로 어찌 이래 유튜브를 하지 대단하다.

BUT GREAT VIDEO!:stayhome:

BTD IRL!!!

I have one question how they didn't make any mistakes

and I wouldn't have to tip the driver (not that I dont) for the 40 dollar 10 piece nugget I ordered.

WOW

Like!👍🐈
Дуже цікаво!!!😊

The propellers look like wishbones

Do people normally make deliveries in 2 ton tacomas?

what about in the city in louisiana got power lines some one needs to be  sure its being delivered to the front yard an not hanging from a power line

Best wishes to Abdul.

j'adopte tes video

Haven’t heard from them now

So clever but can they send things to Canada

❤❤❤

Озвучка огонь 🔥🎉

"This drone will shorten delivery time but will eliminate the jobs of delivery workers."

How do i get this to Australia

Why not in France 😢 im french i want to see zipline drones

It will take so much car and job off .

Zipline has the YouTube channel

ฉันเพิ่งได้เรียนรู้ ROS เมื่อในปีที่แล้วเพื่อทำ AMR ผมทึ่งมากที่คลิปนี่มีการกล่าวถึง

Delivering to far out campsites

5:47 just like how I learned English

😍😍😍😍😍😍😍

The sky would be full of these things.

Ground traffic: ❌

Air traffic: ✅

1000s of people do everyday ordering, imagine the sky full of drones lol

mark ensellanos como hacer puertas secretas

와 선풍기에 써도좋을것같네요

1 drone para cada entrega em.milhares de entregas😅

INCRÍVEL ❤👍🇧🇷😃

From my son!

👍👍👍

Mong là dịch vụ này sớm có mặt ở Việt Nam

2:21 in the what now?

Gordon Bank on Tyler😅

Quá hay

cool

Thanks! You are unreal ❤

I feel bad for ober drivers now 💀

Should have been named “BALTO”.

ЭТО ОЧЕНЬ ГЕНИАЛЬНЫ ЧЕЛОВЕК ХОТЬ Я ТАКОЙЖЕ УМНЫЙ НО ОН МЕНЯ ЧУТЬ УМНЕЙ

I think my next project needs to be engineering a golden ticket! Adults can come right???1

Happy diwali

Wow

soo....
what about box health hit on head people?

Happy diwali 🎉

Wow

¿Por qué la sangre está tan lejos del hospital?

esta  vigente   tus  promociones?

2:23  he knew

why is this not on 60 minutes CBS ?

cool

18:42 There’s a thing for this. Fulton recovery system or FRS (but not for hospitals)

Its one year later... nothing changed

Super wings

Wow!

Dangers, drawbacks?

❤❤❤🎉🎉❤❤❤

Rwanda is beautiful country

😅 aquí en argentina jugamos ala pelota con una botella de medio litro con agua adentro

How can I invest in this company, I am truly moved by your approach to life and helping others.

Эти люди небогатые., НО У НИХ ЕСТЬ ТО ЧТО У БОГАТЫХ НЕТУ. ЭТО СПЛОЧЁННОСТЬ❤❤❤😊😊😊. Я про страну Руанда.

a year later, what is going on with this technology?

There is a risk of braking

Bro this vid was made 2 yrs ago 😑

Happy diwali

Happy diwali

Indonesia sangat sangat butuh ini

2:22 😉😉

Smart

i mean the human can work, look at germany, what the heck is the volocopter invented for it an air taxi lol

르완다에 수출된 한국의 새마을 운동!!!!!!!!!!

go to Russia, there is also a green light at the traffic lights

We have Rivian Amazon trucks in North Carolina

Weapon !

Hero

insane

Does the planes go anywhere around the world?

So can these things also drop on balconies? Because I live in a country where most people live in flats so dropping in yards is obviously not practical.

why doesn't every country use this?

what happens if 2 packeges get dropped on each other?

Bom concelho

북한 오물풍선도 소리 안나요. 북한에도 보낼수 있으면 좋겠네요😅

abduhl is the boy whol ived

Okay, the drones maybe electric but where’s the power coming from to part with the electric drones power plants? My electricity being used more power plants needed means more power plants being made and more pollution.

12:14 where did bro get a video💀

Semoga ada di indonesia. Biar tukang paket gak lelet.

How do you do traffic control ?  (I am sure someone must have already asked)

19:33 Before this video I didn’t even know what Rwanda was… and now I’m crying because of how wholesome this is 😢

para ilmuwan drone 😅

일반 상점 물품을 어떻게 픽업하는지 보여주세요

Жаль, что в России пока что нету Зиплайна.
Но скорее всего скоро будет)))

Happy diwali mark ❤❤❤❤

Tô impressionado com isso ai parabéns nossa sensacional ❤ queria que funciona se aqui no Brasil, perigo alguém rouba os drone ainda e foda Brasil e terrível

i love íts

Com todo o respeito, fico triste quando as pessoas inteligentes veem algo assim como uma solução maravilhosa para diversos problemas e não tem  visão de ver mais além, de forma macro, holística, enfim.... Imaginem todo tipo de entrega sendo realizada por uma empresa como a Zipline, totalmente de forma autonoma, ainda mais com o uso crescente da IA, para que precisaremos então de motoristas, entregadores, motoboys (entregadores que usam motos), etc, etc? Não precisaremos, teremos então um grande números de desempregados, criaremos outro problema gigantesco solucionando um. Por favor pessoas inteligentes, pensem com mais sabedoria. É como desviar toda a agua de um rio que passa no seu terreno e transformar tudo num paraiso tropical, esquecendo que os outros lugares onde a água também irrigava podem virar um deserto.... Pensem!!!!!!!!!

8:45. -Когда я вижу дрон то понимаю что он спасет кому то жизнь.
Это какая то параллельная вселенная….

FUTURE SIGHT

Bro how ojek on there

Great job sir 🇵🇰🇵🇰

Real life airdrop

❤❤❤🎉🎉

Can these drones delivery in havy rain 😮

8:30 тоесть ещё и с теми кто не выжил ты тоже поговорил?

Tuyệt❤❤

Same ❤

In india ❤❤❤

where is the gerber file for pcb design

Thank You.

En Latinoamérica se roban el dron :v

I want your cap 😢😢

it's nice but I have a question on thought drone which kid of battery does they use to more than 2hrs

11:19_______🤣👌

Why you dont change those cars to trains?

❤❤❤🎉🎉🎉

Why doesn't the hospital store the blood?

2:22 bro had a vision

Wow

👍👍

So about the doorstep delivery mark your saying that you would rather put people out of jobs then deal with some traffic

alguna gente trabaja de delivery y eso es su trabajo , entonces si eso llega a pasar gente se quedaran sin trabajo y no tendran comida que llevar a su familia

Maybe someone can help me with this.  But why not just bring the blood to the hospital in bulk.  This way they don't have to wait for the shipment.  Instead of the blood getting delivered to Zipline base deliver it straight to the hospital

I don’t think zipline will deliver to my house😢

But my dad is a mailman? What will happen to his job?

I don't know if I would like drone delivery to my home, but at least you can drop off packages to a safer area in your yard ( if you don't mind invasion of privacy)?!

А почему бы не использовать крылатые дроны для скидывания тротила

We need to send a certain president there to wake him up a little…..

u funny

Lol

👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍

This place is almost like vietnam

Во прикол 10:35 он измерял рост экономики в процентах а преступления в количестве, конечно их будет в 15 раз меньше есле и людей в 15 раз меньше

2:21 bro predicted the future 😭💀

12 минута я не вижу причин думать то что ты один аедь за тобой цветы...

Я подумал что начало - это графика

Any news about them?

Concertar equipamento de ressonância magnética com conhecimento adquirido no youtube. Quanta mentira. Se até um engenheiro treinado na fabrica as vezes tem dificuldades.

😮

Ben a Paraguay porfis

How do they make profit out of this?

Una mejora pero aun muy complicado para los que wuieren recibir su comida en los balcones o or la ventana de su dpto

Just keep trying
Juzjuajya

При вместо развития системы медицинской авиации  капиталисты бросают вам кость в виде стартапа на уровне кружка авиа моделирования

เจ๋ง

What happens if the batteries went out of energy in it falls out of the sky 1:18

12:25 musik PVZ1

👏👏👏👏👏

We need this to bypass tariffs lmfao

I'm not tipping a drone. :P

Quá tuyệt vời

he was the one that knows 💀🙏

that so ong🙏🙏😭😭

i dont think itll survive heh

Fan việt nam điểm ranh🇻🇳🇻🇳🥳🥳

Borneo here

Dan sejauh yang aku tahu ini adalah penemuan luar biasa terjadi pengurangan mobil

11:17 his arm 💀

🆒😎👍🏻

sợ giao xong mất mẹ cái máy bay

Maneiro não funciona aqui em Angola esses drones?

Salut vielle. Branche

ทำไมไทยไม่มีส่งพัสดุแบบนี้ซักที

Kong cosplay night tongue

🎉

Mark it's great but do they get seen on plane GPS because if this is gonna be evryway they need plane GPS.

India is the most populated currently  in the world and healthcare issues are critical at places like ladakh

Hola mark  rober ❤

അടിപൊളി ❤

mark rober🌍🌎🌏🗺🌋

Praze rewanda, that place is one of the better countries

우리가 할수있는건 이 영상에 싫어요를 누르는 것입니다.🤣🤣🤣🤣

Ottimo

Love from india ❤❤

cry

2:20

Jangan sampek bandar Narkoba liat 😂

93% of online purchases weigh less than one pound.😉

say bye to delivery jobs

köszönöm a magyar nyelvet

What if I live in a area with a bunch of trees which I do?

We need this service in India 🇮🇳

nunca voy a poder  tener una caja
nunca podre tener una caja

2:20

идея, что в конце вызывает вопросы, так как это довольно дорого из-за ряда причин!

❤

❤❤❤

what?.....you did not just save a life basically.

주식사야겠다

9:13 в Молдове тоже такое есть

А у нас дроны и жужжат и падают по ночам

Rural use? 100%
The sky over my house filled with these things dropping off a single cholate bar to bro down the street? Not so much

hello mark rober, try if you can visit sri lanka

Has this been tested somewhere where there's a lot of people like a city like nyc?...from what I see it's tested in sparsely populated places..but try that in nyc...where there's complete chaos.

Hòa hảo 👍

dracula contento hhhhh

Одни дроны спасают жизни, другие отнимают

Hacking can also happen

ya esta funcionando actualmente ?

Waduh gue sebagai driver online bisa tersingkir ini, trus gue mau makan apa, gue harus kaya raya sebelum gue di gantikan dron ini

Доставка в странах где много многоэтажек не кажется мне возможной так как крыльцо общее и кто то может забрать твою посылку или посчитать за мусор

12:58 ASUMSI TERBAIK

 20:49 MAINAN TERBAIK

am from rwanda bro

На 12:20 заиграла музыка из пвз

Воры будут сбивать дроны из ружья. Снайперская винтовка стреляет на несколько километров. Идея шикарная, но для мирного времени, когда нет кризиса.

36 million views

Hey no tips for dinner delivery

Ridiculous 😂

So, being a year later now, has this "changed everything"??

Ok aku pesan di perumahan sukolilo dian regency jalan 5 nomor 41

Formidable. Quand l’Afrique donne des leçons aux Occidentaux (et même aux Chinois). Quand le systême sera généralisé et que les drones seront aussi nombreux que des crickets, il faudra se pencher sur le problème des collisions en vol.

why no blood at the hospital

I am allergic to peanuts

우리나라는 단독 주택 거주자가 거의 없어서(대도시) 불가. ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ

aku ingin ikut.banyak impianku yang belum ter uji danterlealisasi.

Это не отъем жизни это просто доставка гранат

Where can I apply for a job

Are Zipline services available in BD❓

Semoga Indonesia lebih cepat menyusul sistem mereka agar pengerjaan sesuatu lebih cepat dan tepat waktu

5.0 come true

Hola amor Rubén te tengo una pregunta ❓ solo me preguntaba

ดีจัง

🇨🇩🇨🇩i'm Congolese

😁☺

😂😮😂

Sir you roast amezone 😂😂

2 years ago 😮

They probably will never allow this in the US! Because the US is a nanny state!!

Видимо в этой стране мало коррупции или вообще нет

Can barely hear a hummingbird?! They are literally named for their noisy buzz. Wow, disinformation is so subtle.

Things shown in the video can be done without a person directly piloting the drone. I'd like to know what tasks require a person to directly pilot the drone. We are in desperate need of answers from drone experts.

Zipline is coo companies i was trying to comment but until Amtrak started to talk on my radio and interrupting meal I was trying to comment will was trying to listen to the radio at the same time

i your fan

Hi bro plz come in india ❤❤❤

Drone delivery is the future: fast, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly
 Medical delivery drones use innovative design and autonomous navigation to make life-saving deliveries in any weather, day or night.
Zipline uses drones to save lives by delivering blood and medical supplies.
 Rwanda boasts impressive environmental and economic achievements.
 New short-range city drones could revolutionize deliveries
 Zipline's propeller design aims for quieter flights
 New drone technology can lower a cockpit and glide above traffic
These are the things I learned from the video

11:00 1 Mark Rober vs 20 mountain Gorillas?

lol

Faz essa caixa versão brasileira ❤

0:54 ok mais imagine c’eux qui cherche du travail comment il vont faire hyn le monde ne tourne pas autour de vous hyn

2:20

15:25 и 15:40 ZipLine винты

2:21 did anyone catch that?

Уже сейчас нужно задуматься о законах, разрешающих полеты дронов в городах. Это хреновая идея засорять небо.

Back in the day - My father once told me that "Locks are designed to only keep honest people out" Others will always find a way to sircumvent. i.e law enforcement speed radar guns - we found a way around that. So, don't be to sure that you'll get your package on time or at all. we currently have to deal with porch pirates and now we may have to deal with drone delivery pirates. Just saying 🤷🏻‍♂

I’m very surprised that it’s been over a year and I just now got a chance to see this. I hope no colonizers came over there and screwed that up.

1+1=?

เพราะอากาศระดับต่ำบดบังทรรศนะวิสัยของกล้องที่ใช้ในเขตเมือง

การส่งไปรษณีย์ พัสดุจากเครื่องหย่อนแบบนี้ลงไปรับที่ดาดฟ้าหรือหน่าตึกก็เป็นอะไรที่ไม่เลวเลยจริงๆ....ยิ่งถ้ามีนาฬิกาที่มีการบอกสถานที่อยู่ในตอนนั้นด้วยก็ยิ่งดีเลย!!!

ส่วนการส่งอาหาร...ระขนส่งขนาดเล็กคล้ายมอเตอร์ไซค์แต่ไม่เปลืองพื้นที่คนขับก็ดีมากเลยในตอนนี้

✌️✌️✌️


^ ^

2:21 how does he know?

14:15 noise compare

Zipline rwanda... Kalian benar2 wakil Tuhan, 88% mengurangi Tingkat kematian, itu menurutku bukan tugas manusia lagi, kalian luar biasa!! Aku merinding melihat video ini..👍🙏

Millions like

Них себе новичок

Na China já é assim.

can you sell crunch labs boxes in germany bc i live in germany and i cant buy the boxes here ok tanks

I mencanata tu canal

А в Москве до сехпор доставка и такси на лада 😂

Bro, China could already do that years ago

I did

From the screen to the ring to the pen to the king

​@Kostkanakostce  where's my crown, that's my bling always drama when I reign

Woah woah woah, i guess this is how the story goes, woah woah woah, I guess this is how the story goes

มาชมสิ่งประดิษฐ์ที่น่าทึ่งด้วยครับ

Onde esta o botão para dar mais de 1 like ?

Whaynot just store the stuff at the hospital

ps can they deliver packages?

Aib mbelak menjadi 8 miliar jiwa di bumi 🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐🌎🌐

🇧🇷

kalau di indonesia pasti biaya operasional nya pasti mahal, dan pasti sudah di korupsi.

Mr beast mark Rober edition

Hola

ฉันมาจากประเทศไทยฉันชอบวีดีโอของคุณมาก

😮😮😮😮😮😮😮😮

ถ้าโดรน Ziplineมีในไทย

india must want this tec.

Hi😊❤

А Почему нельзя просто хранить кровь около  больницы.

A sé entrega en Venezuela

Can i be in one of your videos

Hello Mark,I from Russia. Will you take me to your lab? I got a platinum ticket.

Hi

Instead of using a car why does no one use a bicycle to pickup the delivery if it's the distance not more than 3-4 miles .
Using a bicycle will  help you to workout  purpose as well as environment friendly

You mean 24/7

Aku tidak bisa tidur dengan posisi 8 dan tak bisa lagi yang

Ojalá a USA no se le ocurra llevar la democracia a Ruanda

A one year…

How about the jobs, mark rober,

hola Mark soy marcos

Телепортация это совсем другое,доставка заказа через стены прямо в помещение и ехать на работу не надо парится на авто в пробках,надел телепортационный пояс нажал кнопку и ты уже в нужном месте. Но это ещё не изобрели сейчас только 21 век надо подождать.

😂😂😂😂最高

Now i cant be a door dasher

ở việt nam sẽ mất luôn máy bay :DDD

Kambong adalah obatadih auara masa depan

You best unzhener

Lightwave Logic (LWLG) photonic Polymers replace the CMOS! 
Naturally faster- Secure your future. ) - much faster INTERNET!

Me ajude a fazer um drone de entrega de supermercado minha cidade é pequena. Iria mudar minha cidade é seria maior evolução da nossa cidade

Hey Uber, you  listening

But this may wont work in India because of electric towers and kites

Cool!

Legalllllllllllllllllllll❤❤

11:19 bro?

what about airplanes

You could be launching drones instead, sounds a lot cooler to me

People seem to forget property rights, you as a property owner own everything to the core of Earth your plot sits on, and 30,000ft up in the sky, delivering to your home, is technically not possible, nevermind violating basic elements of privacy designed on, or around the home, in the USA

Вся передача - одна реклама!

Semoga indonesia bisa mencontoh rwanda...

this drone will change NOTHING

Is Hackpack is in India in India

boa tarde , quero lhe mostrar uma nova tecnologia espacial, se houver interesse me procure..

Try in Pakistan,  u need a new drone for every delivery 😅😅😅

2:20 those who know

Училься у сэнфорда?

Why not paper airplanes?😂

ประเทศไทยใช้ส่งยาบ้าข้ามคุกมานานแหละพี่

...literally

Skeet gun practice.

In ruanda is like indonesia

Marque mais uma pergunta e os pré adolescentes devia também ter uma caixa pros pré adolescente que é só os adolescentes e as crianças têm os pré adolescentes também devia ter

y si no tines patio

China has had this tech for a while now.

Show

Why dod not they have blood in hospital itself ??? How did blood come to zipline station ????

Seperti di Indonesia

100% 😂

There to weak

Abdul smart h

3:24 luar biasa

Can I point out that Zipline is an American company and these drones are American inventions and not Rwandan as implied in the video.

Eu sou inscrito traga um brinquedo para mim de Natal Rua 13 Quadra G Lote 4 no ginásio velho Orbital que eu sou a terceira casa

I just wanna say to Mr. Roper probably never see this.  I’m on the fence about MrBeast. Sometimes it seems like he does what he does for his YouTube channel.  You however, come off very genuine. And an all-around nice person. Not saying MrBeast isn’t.  I’m just saying how you come off.

In thick of 2:21

May I transfer this unique experience to my country, Iraq? Can I or not? Please respond to my comment

캐나다-미국 국경에서는 사용 못하게해라...미국산 마약 드론택배올라...

спорим ты не сможешь отправить диван в юг а потом он должен прийти к нашему дому и он должен вращаться на 360 градусов  и на диване должен стоять манекен с коробк и там должен быть один яйцо 😂😂😂😂

silent and deadly; facility management and including netting or other mitigation whenever uav failure endangers those below 🚁 human resource and contact centre

Ok aku pesan di indonesia raya merdeka

원심력으로 던지자

abdul is legend

I am partime delivery boy 😅😢

5:46 tôi thắc mắc sao trẻ mồ côi như anh ấy có thể học tới Đại học được, tiền ở đâu?

Indonesian be like:😂

For what??? Why in the hospital they don’t have blood ???

INDIA ME KAB AAYGA YE SAB 🇮🇳🇮🇳🇮🇳🤟

Gonzalez Barbara Jones David Wilson Barbara

Спасибо за русский язык! всех благ

2:15 2:17 2:18 2:19 2:20 2:20 2:20 2:21 2:21 2:21 2:22 2:23 2:23

WHERE DO THEY GET BLOOD FROM

8:49

2:22

Dans quel pays tu habites

Abdul là người hùng.

the box can come to india

12:30

22:2 thick of it!

Aman dari mananya

⬆️

Доллара гнилой системы пропаганда лишнее    /  а в осталтном молодых и глупых должно продеть

19:19 that’s called a “helicopter”

Цивилизация, остановись уже...

8:43

Hehe haha i can type

भ्रष्टाचारी नेताओं से भरा हुआ देश भारत में तो ये संभव ही नहीं है, लानत हो भारतीय नेताओं और अधिकारियों पर।

Please increase your technology please sir

2:00

привет

Donors

IKR

Brainrot kids these days

Not helicopter because it’s ukranian invention so гелікоптер

เป็นสารคดีที่ดูแล้วมีความสุขมากครับ

Kamu pingn cari aku seperti itu tidak bakalan kamu bisa dapatkan aku tidak mau kerja sama dengan kalian not thing 
Never forever you

Do 12 videos a year

Minha professora falou que também existe pra adolescente com se tiver 12 anos você vira pré adolescente

Если бы меньше кривлялся, было бы интереснее.

It’s 2024 and this drone hasn’t changed anything

In Ukraine, the only thing that is delivered by road is TNT

американцы хоть знают кто спровоцировал геноцид и ответственнен за него?

Mark 31×15 is 465 not 466

This did NOT change everything

Jackson Mary Miller Steven Brown Melissa

Learn to cook and save the delivery fee and stop cluttering up the sky's with mocha latte

Dibalik kemajuan teknologi di negara Rwanda, jangan lupa ada Israel dibelakangnya.

How is this in hindi?

12:21 bruh pvz fusion song

Í the same of Vietnam

Siapa sangka namanya abdull

icec ream

Ты в России не был тут жестко

The cow 14:31

Do you need blood at a hospital? I’m just assuming you don’t live anywhere near a zip line station

Lol

Its from basic pvz 🤦‍♂️

Drone dari the faqa

Abdul jir

I talk spanish😢😢😢

💕💕💕💕👹🤡🤡:face-fuchsia-poop-shape::thanksdoc:😀😇

2:20 hmmm where have I heard that before…

Сказка

Do You Write Like That Too?

Not to be morbid,,, but those ZipLine Drones could be really impactful in Ukraine!

Попахивает типичной научной фантастикой. Не известно сколько будет обслуживание этого идиотизма. Я люблю научный прогресс, но такие вещи хороши только в видео, по факту же появляется куча костылей

He forgot teslas

Странно

Nice story but here 😂😅 9:11, 9:40 ,  9:16, 10:24

Sekawanan gorilla di indonesia raya merdeka mas keluarga mas ya ok the robotic

Ну да,ну да.Всё это рассказывается так,как будто всё это ничего не стоит.Настолько,что кто-то создал целую компанию зарабатывающую на этом.С немалым штатом сотрудников.И все эти расходы оплачивают конечные потребители из своего кармана.А преимущество только одно - срок доставки.За что цена всегда дороже.Именно поэтому выбран специфический груз.Типа жить захочешь - заплатишь.Но судя по всему,прокатывает это только в Руанде,потому что в других странах запрет на такие полёты.Я удивлён,что на западе,чтоб заняться такой фигнёй,нужно оказывается отучиться в Гарварде.Я был лучшего мнения о западном образовании

В России это не пройдёт так как у нас они запрещены и надо их регистрировать и так далее... 😡

Untuk aldzina hugo tolong bantu saya dan keluarga saya melalui kotak 🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲📦🔲 kesehatan untuk menginfus  tubuh dan mengambil darah 💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉💉 darah tubuh dari afrika 🌍🌍🌍🌍🌍🌍🌍🌍😅🌍 atau dari tokyo 🇯🇵🇯🇵🇯🇵🇯🇵🇯🇵🇯🇵🇯🇵🇯🇵 ya

Send to me Indonesia Papua

Ты где живеш

спасибо франции за генгоцидик в руганде

Lot of student lose there part time job...!

Gajelas

0:37 мне

could carry a pizza

Не знаю почему но голос на русском языке подходит тебе больше 😅

You✨✨✨✨✨✨🥳🥳🥳👍🏿👍🏿👍🏿👍🏿👍🏿👍🏿👍🏿🎊🎊🎊🎉🎉🎉

You gona go to ukraine to see REAL drone😅

Руандалықтар жарайсыңдар! Ал біздер әле отырмыз диктатор президенттен құтыла алмай. Қазақстан.

amazing that Rwanda was deemed unsafe for asylum seekers eh?

BRASIL CUADWEBS

Только тот дрон изменит всё, который будет создан на абсолютно новой материальной базе. Все эти ваши пропеллерные дроны в самых разных конфигурациях ничем не отличаются по большому счету и никогда не сделают никакой революции, прорыва в своём применении. Какая блин скорая помощь на дроне)) вы угораете)), просто усовершенствуйте обычный проверенный вертолет скорой помощи, если там вдруг чего то не хватает, и пользуйтесь, вместе со всеми уже имеющимися стандартами безопасности и имеющимся опытом и ищите элементы которые позволят создать что то действительно НОВОЕ. Не знаю, источник питания какой-то вроде холодного синтеза (который не существует, но может существует что то другое такое же фантастически не токсичное энергоэффективное, но реальное) или что то еще более фантастичное - антигравитационный материал какой-то. Пока что то такого невероятного не случится НЕ БУДЕТ НИКАКОГО НОВОГО ПРИМЕНЕНИЯ У ДРОНОВ. Дроны годятся только как игрушки, противотанковая и противопехотная сила на поле боя, средство слежеки. Ну можно рискнуть доставлять товары в черте города, но пожалуйста не надо, вы никогда не выиграете суд, если на дроне есть ваш идентификатор и дрон упал на прохожего)))

Ukraine needs these

Jcjc🎉😂😂😂

будуйщие пришло

2.22
16.50

Like with helping homeless and children, why is this not in place in the USA. Millions of people in this country live in rural areas, far from any big cities. Let's take care of things at home first

DJOGJA NEWS

hello Mark Rober

woooooooooo medications, you dont need......mostly

🇦🇫❤❤❤❤❤🇦🇫🇦🇫❤❤❤

Now go to mexico

йоу

Hello

What about people’s jobs

;/mark

Why not just keep blood at the actual freaking hospital... not a knock off amazon center?

3:35 yeah lands safely

Hello

😂 No,it won’t “change everything “ ! There’s nothing new about this.

18:54 wait how does this differ from a helicopter?

19:13 Bro just invented a Helicopter...

Am i the only one to think that someone just thinks that people are lazy and thats why they want the blood flown to them and not picked up by themselves returning 3-5 hours later leaving the patient well over dead. just too lazy to get the food we can easily obtain using this while its also efficient, or medicine that we need when we cant go far at all. does just 1 person think that we are lazy?

???😮😮😮

2:22

Annabiyyullah nuh alaihissalam

🤍🤍

Abdul mana Mak Abdul dimana kamu abdul

ok

Это все прекрасно, но...что происходит в Руанде, что им нужно столько крови?

ok

Please tell us you've sent ⚽ 🫶

Реклама

ऐसी technology इंडिया में कब आएगी,  इंडिया में तो नफ़रत और अंधभक्त का दौर चल रहा हैं,  तो zipline को भूल जाओ,,,,,,,,, the drone delivery...for medical facility 😊

Quieter

It’s a helicopter that lowers you down and keeps the propellers up

I wouldn’t say it’s just a helicopter, I would say it’s a very beneficial transport helicopter when people are in emergencies and can cause death rates to go down that doesn’t make any disturbances 😮🤗

Lol

Они походу доставляют кровь индивидуально для каждого пациента, у нас же чаще всего просто закупают кровь оптом, и ты просто не замечаешь как ещё большее количество крови перекачивается у нас в больницах

C4

sip

Can the food delivery be used in Rural areas and regions of the United States and for Palestinians in Palestine 🇵🇸

откройте филиал в украине у нас тут много пацыэнтов нуждаются в доставке в окопы по 500гр тротила.

Dla planety - to już nie oglądam

🛡 NEVER FORGET THEIR PALESTINIAN' STORIES🇵🇸❤️🖤🤍💚🇵🇸: LIFE HISTORY SONG CULTURE INTELIGENCE BEAUTY COURAGE BRAVERY STEADFAST FIGHT UNITY STRENGTH 🗽🇵🇸💪🏼🇵🇸📯🥳🇵🇸💃🕺🇵🇸🛡🇵🇸⚔️

А если я в России то коробка придёт? Ну с обучалкой твоей?

If this unmanned aircraft is on the same route as a commercial aircraft, is there a risk of collision?

Осуждаю 👎 Украину Россия  топ🇷🇺🇷🇺🇷🇺🇷🇺🇷🇺🇷🇺

Jay shree ram ❤

2:22 pls don't do jokes here, it's a serious matter.

Обїдінись с каналом король ізобрітєній

This would take jobs though no? Not hating just asking

super nice

Probably not.

Ja parou para pensar o quanto de pessoas vão ficar desempregadas, por não conseguir mais um emprego de entregador(a)? A ideia e boa mas a intenção não...

Haha Yes it's effective for a handful of deliveries per day, hey genius, how many of these one package drones will you have in the air to supply one district? You wanna cover the sun?  Lol these things will be shot from the sky like flies. Theft? How many packages can they deliver? How many drones will you have in the air? lol eeeeeediats

Теперь такие дроны только на войне используют((((

go to
 ghana

Now imagine all the engineers that will come out of the Gaza genocide.

Привет  bro

This was made way before the song….

I dont think he was trying to make a joke lol, he was just saying a common phrase

what's the joke?

 @mac-gaming-c7t the joke is this guy is a snowflake and can’t handle people.

Mas vai parar com a poluição do planeta

I play pvz and video

And make millions of people lose there jobe

7

povlin

2025❤🙂✌️🥁2026🎉

Asinine

Doublage hyper pénible ne pas écouter cette vidéo ! passez votre chemin ;)

:/

>:(

abdul?

so nice

Почему тут пишут не по русскому?

Fine video,Fine spoken.

TBH, mark is a bit of a tool

ERM... DRONES ARE TOTALLY NOT GONNA BECOME A mainstream THING GUYS... Just give up already.

Sangat menarik sekali 👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍

your idea basically already exists, helicopters pick patients up all the time with ziplines. Way easier to just lower a bed though instead of all the medical equipment. I don't believe that would ever be replaced by no humans though because a human is always going to be able to perform better in that situation and take in all the complexity of powerlines, cliffs and other medical proffestionals

PUBG

А в России такое будет

Make your voice higher and more affected, otherwise you can't hold my attention.

why do you think

Зачем нам, у пункты выдачи озона и ягодок, и курьеры
Это только для деревень тема

Dude has 36 milly views, I think he could care less about holding your attention

C est nul

Rober clowning around is not funny and takes away from an interesting video. He needs to play it straight because he’s a terrible comedian.

Happy diwali

Sorry that you are so worried about cars being on the road. I love in my car and Instacart is the way I make money and you are trying to change that. I don't like your videos anymore

Why isn’t the blood and other hospital supplies stored at the hospital so we don’t need that layer of transportation

Wow 😂 1:35

after 1 year nothing changed at all.

Je veux une drone

12:00 This PvZ music...

too bad most drone batteries dont last long

ड्रोन हंटर से ड्रोन गिराऊ गा और कंपनी को फैल करूंगा

5:35 this is a undertale

테슬라가 미래다

that thing didn't change anything

Pizza is on the way?❤

Глупо, очень глупо в 21-м веке говорить о эволюции. Столько исследований пролетели как эти дроны мимо ушей «безмозглого» автора. 😢😢😢

not a progress wasted money

12:00 respect for Ukrainian flags! 🫡

Amazing invention from Rwanda?? 🤣🤣 They couldn’t even invent a written language 😆

Only 3 minutes into the video and I'm absolutely sobbing. They are doing wonderful work

its when they dont have a lot or a nother one

😂😂😂

😂

literally changed nothing.

"Lands safely using a parachute" Casually slams into the ground

may all tech that put people out of jobs fail terribly

11:20 что за непродуманность? Автор, ты ведь знаешь, куда едешь, не мог привезти детям связку мячей?😮  Эгоист... Дизлайк

😂

Uea whatever tho who cares

