The 9 year old in me laughed at  1:50

Thanks man. Just starting a new job and I need to know these. Lots of good info and easy to understand.

Thank you Kennis. I've been searching video to help me out, but not much on Youtube. Finally! Very greatful!

🤘👍🏿 Incredibly helpful thank you

Thanks for the help! It’s easy to forget the basics!

Thank you.  Answered all of my questions in plain English

Thank you for taking time to make this video.  Been in audio for 40+years, & as you know,  we must stay informed.  Thanks for updating my knowledge.

Awsome! Needed that break down!!

It was a great experience with your awesome presentation. Thank you so much for your great effort and spending your valuable time for the music lovers!!

Thank you for explaining what cables would be good for speakers!

All those Audio Cables are analog, therefore the quality and condition of the cables will impact the audio quality.

Thank you, Your video made in 2018 is still helping guys like me in 2025💌

Thanks for taking the time to explain it; I really appreciate it! :)

This video is absolutely amazing i needed to know about cables and connectors for my college event and this was such a great help Thank you so much!!!

Full of knowledge about connectors, thank you very much

Great video Kennis! Very informative.

Nice and clearly explained and demonstrated Kennis,even us old hands that have seen the changes over the years need to know the subtle differences of the similar looking cables with same ends on but very different cores for their purposes. Well done and worthwhile!

Great explanation about the cables. I learned good lesson about the various types of cables! 👍

Great Video!  You made it easy enough for your old PCH choir buddy to understand!  Thanks for the info! -W

Thanks for sharing a really comprehensive explanation that's important for musicians to understand, especially for some things that can confuse people like the difference between DMX & XLR or 1/4" instrument & speaker. This is a great starting point for people to learn more and expand their knowledge of the equipment we all gotta use.

Quick note on the interconnect vs microphone: interconnects lack the necessary shielding to be used for microphones because they're designed to interconnect devices. Say, your interface to your monitors, which aren't as susceptible to interference. You could use a mic cable as an interconnect, but you'd pick up way too much noise using an interconnect as a mic cable.

Appreciate your work & wisdom as always, Kennis!

Vinni Lopes lmao, it’s always so funny to watch the “cable Guys” squirm as they explain male and female connecters
. 😂

Awesome video! I learned a lot. Thanks!

Great Job!  I am going to use you explanation to teach my guitar club students.  Thank you!

Fantastic video. Thanks for sharing your knowledge.

thanks for your time to show your knowledge

Super informative and easy to follow, thank you! Also, I love how you showed headphones with 3.5mm cable to plug into your phone, which most smart phones don't have any more. 😅

This has helped a lot. Thankyou.

Great video, always good to know what your grabbing and why or why not. Thanks!

Dude i learned so much from this video. Thanks!

Good demo on cables & connectors sir

Great explanation with accurate info 👌

Great explanation there, was also looking to see a PL cable but thanks for the upload !

Thank you.. one of the greatest explanations bruh

Great info and well presented.

Very helpful, thank you!

Thank you so much. But I would have loved the diagram of connections as why they are different.👍

Brilliant. Really helpful video.

Great video!

Thank You Sir. Really helpful!

I learned something new. With xlr cable I wasn't aware of the difference for digital vs mic/audio. I was experiencing alot of hum and interference with some cheap cables and stepped up the quality and solved the problem. Thanks for sharing.

Thanks for sharing this useful infos!

awesome explanation, thank you!

Thank you so much my brother your video helped me a lots

I just want to say thank you for all that information on  cables.  I am buying some equipment for my studio and I had no clue what to buy or what any of this known cables did or where used for other than the basics.  This video has taken me out the dark much appreciated.

2020, this is the best simply put yet highly informative video ever, you just earned a sub, thank you Ken, beautiful stuff
i love how you differentiated the different uses of what seems to be 100% identical types of cables, im in the media ministry in my church and I found this highly useful

👍 Comprehensive video.

Thank you sos much.......  I was using a guitar cable to hook up my speakers and I did not know that.

He looks like Blake shelton

Kennis Russell thank for post this video it has give me some insight on auto cable,

thanks! that was so helpful

Very helpfull.  Watching from dubai

Good job great video!

Thanks for the video. It's funny...I've been a musician all my life and never heard of speakon cables. I never used a PA. I always used instrument amplifiers. I recently bought a PA amp and speakers and didn't know that I would need speakon cables. I found out that's what I needed, but had never heard of them. So I watched your video and you answered all the questions and more. Not so complicated now. You make it simple....thanks

Hey Ken loved your Tommy movie!

Very helpful!

Great video

I learned a lot, thank you! Just got a audio interface and I needed this video!

good explanation, thanks---

Good elementary tutorial on cables.  I particularly enjoyed his visual demonstration of the difference between female connector and male connector. I watched that part several times.

Informative.

Great information! I am not a musician, but an electronics repair technician.  I need to know about every cable out there, both past and present, in order to do repair work.
Frank
Frank Reiser Video/Audio Service

But what we DON'T know: can he sing?

 @kennisrussell  :D

😳umm what? You “enjoyed his visual demonstration?” 👀😳

I think you may have meant red and white RCA connectors for audio.  Yellow is for composite video.

Thank you sir!!!!

Great video!! Speakon is a brand too. It's NL4 & NL8

Thank you very much

Great video, I was really confused whether there were two types of XLR cable, one for mics and DIs which are inserted into a mixing console, and one for the the output which goes into amps and speaker cabs but if I understood correctly this is not the case.

Informative

In Ireland and the UK we call the quarter inch or guitar cable a "Jack to Jack" or "Jack lead"

Thank you! I was using a guitar cable to hook up my speakers for dj and I did not know that 1/4inches are not the same simply cause the ends match...

Thank you sir

Speaker cables can transfer guitar signal just as good as instrument cables. The reason you don't want to use them is that speaker cables are not shielded and will thus bring a lot of noise into the front end of your amplifiers which will make the interference louder. You dont have this problem going from your amo to your speaker cause ibterference is usually not very loud, especially compared to the signal thats going through it at that moment

Still a lot to absorb, (yeah I'm slow) but I plan on watching this several times LoL. Thank you very helpful. 🏹🤠👍

1:51 "And I'll let you decide why..." hahahahha Kennis made me laugh out loud at 1:18 in the morning. hahahahhahah

thanks mate

THANK  YOU THANK  YOU THANK YOU

You rock!!!!

I'm a musician play various clubs in my lifetime someone told me you could take a microphone cable cut the ends off. install/ solder quarter inch Jack's and on one side leave one of them off and clip it tape it and it'll keep the hum out is this true? old musician hacks?
And for other musicians have you ever heard of a hot tap?  that's where you take what looks like jumper cable type cables that has outlets on the other end hook them to the club's main Buzz bars on the breaker box so you can get clean power so that neon signs in fluorescent lights won't make noise on your band's equipment/ PA !
with modern-day equipment not so necessary but in the old days we had to do what we had to do , haha...

Great informatiom.wonderful advice.not going against what you said but i use a dmx cable for audio and microphone and it works great

Some of the RCA connector are used for Composite Video - Red Blue and Green; while the typical Yellow - Video, Red and White for Left and Right Audio.  Midi are DIN Connectors like on the old Commodore computers.

Great video just wished you got more into the TRS balanced tip ring sleeve versus unbalanced TS tip and sleeve.. You mentioned it a little bit but those two things need to be shown in comparison maybe even discussing three conductors versus two conductors but like I said great video overall

Speakon also carries 2 signals. This means that on a lot of modern amps you can set settings for 2 different speakers (woofer and tweeter for example).

Hi. Do you think that speakon splitters work to connect to passive speakers to an active one?

it depends on whether it is NL2, NL4 or NL8. NL2 has two contacts so you can only use a cable with to conductors which transmit one speaker signal. If you have an NL4 plug that is also hooked up to a 4-conductor cable, you can transport 2 speaker signals and NL8, which is physically much bigger can transport 4 speaker signals. So when you have two speakers that should receive a different signal, you take an NL4 cable to the first one and then you need to use a crossover cable (or splitter) for the other speaker. The reason being is that Speaker 1 is only going to use the signal on pins 1+ and 1-, and speaker 2 is also going to only use the signal from those pins, but because the signal for speaker 2 has so far been transported on pins 2+ and 2-, you need a cable that takes what is on pins 2+ and 2- and puts it onto pins 1+ and 1-, which is a crossover cable. I don't think these are commercially available, and another option is to hook up a splitter to the free speakon jack on speaker 1 and connect your normal speakon cable to that.
@techtutorialsbyhenry : nope, this will not work. Speakon cables are only designed for transporting a speaker level signal between an amp and a passive speaker. An active speaker wants a line level signal to amplify in its integrated amp and has an XLR input for this purpose. Converting speakon to XLR and putting a speaker-level signal into the electronics would likely fry the active speaker's amp. The only case where you can hook a passive speaker up to an active one is if the active speaker's integrated amp is designed to drive another speaker, in which case the active speaker would already have a speakon out and no splitter would be needed. However, I am aware of no such speaker because it would not make sense to build it.

Awesome video! So informational and helpful. I did have a question since I’m just getting into audio. I purchased some studio monitors and I heard there’s a difference between them and regular speakers. Such as studio monitors require a balanced cable because they’re used for listening to specific sounds and frequencies while producing. Will I loose quality if I get an unbalanced cable?

you could have shown the wire if the wire did not have any markings on it.

What about the 3ft cable that has 1/4”  end connector to speak on end connector. Where is it rightfully use for?

Hi how would I connect my ddj1000 controller to an old eq that only has rca and then to my krk rp8 speakers using xlr?

XLR vs DMX is not about ohmage but impedance. XLR carry low frequency signal, this is not an issue. DMX in the other hand uses serial communication at a fixed 250kbps baud rate. You need a special wire conception to avoid problem related to higher frequency.  It's also why it's best practice to use a terminator  on a DMX bus. It's also why you can use CAT5 or CAT6 cable as DMX cable because they are built to deal with high frequencies.

Nice presentation.  You may want to add a correction about the speaker cables NOT working in the instruments.  The speaker cable has lower resistance and no shielding.  It will deliver the signal to the instrument along with all the other interference that affects small voltage and currents like what is delivered to the instrument.   The instrument cable on the other hand (much thinner) has high resistance and may overheat if used with the high currents required in the speaker circuit.

1/4" plugs and jacks are the most widely used audio connectors, carrying signals with different impedance and voltage which makes them incompatible and could even make some smoke if mistakenly mixed. The two major troublemakers are guitar amp sets and portable PA's, in which 1/4" cables are used to carry high-voltage, high-current powered signals that'll certainly cause a costly and gruesome fireworks show while being wired into any line or instrument level inputs. Or if only one end of a 1/4" cable is plugged into an amplifier, the other end will act as both a stungun and a firestarter.

Hi there, can you (or anyone) tell me why it's so hard to find a "clip-on" microphone with stereo output (3.5 mm). I have one with only mono (3.5 mm).

Hello.i have a quick question. Which cables do i need to connect a controller that have an rca output to xlr speakers? Thank you!

I saw a xlr with 3.5 mm at the end of it

Red and Black for stereo audio RCA, Yellow is usually Video.

I love u bro! Had no idea what a speakon cord was. I order a set of $600 speakers and they came with no cords lmao

THANK you. I think I need a quarter inch to RCA. I want my first electronic drum set to come out of my speakers instead of my headphones since I play to a rudiments video & then music while watching YouTube.

Question: I want to buy a headphone amp for my headphones but also I would like to connect my studio monitors and subwoofer. It has a left and right rca line out and also a 3.5mm jack for sub. Can I connect my Powered KRK Sub to the unit via a XLR or TRS into a 3.5mm jack into the unit?

Came across a speakon connector on an old power amp and was utterly flumoxed about how to plug it into the 1/4 inputs on the massive speaker setup i need an adapter.

Dear
Xlr to 6.35mm conversation can work for my Sony 71d music system with Samson C03 xlr mic?

i have a guitar processer(Firehawk fx) and it has 2 XLR out and 2 "1/4"out   ...do i need these kind of speakon, xlr,1/4 speaker cable to connect my guitar processor with powered speaker?

Hi 
Could you help me with 
( How to repair a cable in which there is a 3.5mm stereo and at the other side there is midi 5 pins ) 
I am asking about the colour and how to connect 3 cables  with 5 cables inside ) 
Thx

hi Ken, my active sub has a Speakon cable but one end are 2 bares wires red and black....how do these bare wires connect to my AV amp ?....thx

I have a question, I purchased a Akai mpc one, it has a 1/8" headphone jack I guess? So what do I need?

I appreciate your answer and response but more details and specifics would be super helpful.   Why?  Only because line level  seem or to my understanding that of a specific and often set volt, usually safe, level.  Let's talk old school...  an amp or even a home  integrated amp (tape out) will be a safe outboard line level not carrying higher voltage, thus you could daisy chain even a tape out line level output to another amplifier.   Or many amps have line level outs, I.e.; Amp 1 input takes an incoming higher voltage low Impedance signal (doesn't a mic input have a much less Impedance, super sensitive higher voltage too?) And moreover your source guitar,  instrument may have a pentiometer which can go from hypothetical 0 to 3, 4, or even 12 volts?   Vs, a simple line level out put that might be set at 1.5 voltage or 3 voltage.    I'm Not giving criticism, I'm asking for you knowledge.   So, if I've an amplifier with a line level out, though fed input is say 12, the out is only going to kick out a safe voltage 1.5 example thus a safe signal to the other amp.  I can then control the Amp 2 gain of that line level input with its Pentiometer to the speaker?    In the video,  he says i can't use a speaker 1/4 cable from instrument  to speaker, but I'm assuming he's saying only amp to speaker?  But doesn't the speaker 1/4 cable have 1) more conducting copper hence and better insulation making it safer for hot.   I get that a speaker cable may be of higher Impedance,  thus less resistance,  meaning more voltage,  but I'm confused as to spark, fire, etc... when you're discussing 1/4 cables.   Would you be as so kind to help me understand and in details.  I'm into tube amps, solid state amps, biamping and multiple amps.  I'm into guitars,  guitar amps,  and using them.   Some equipment,  like a bunch of Yamaha monitors,  powered, have, line/mic and variable balance pentiometer 1/4 inputs.   They also have a line in 1/4  input (can't adjust)...and a XLR input with a balance line/mic pentiometer knob.   The center, noon is both mic/line and I suppose works as an impede balance.  Rotation of the knob, mic way or line way goes to 5 or 7 o'clock.  If line side is at 5, pure line.  As I rotate to noon, it gets louder.  If I rotate into the mic side, distortion.   I'm confused too by low htz vs high htz.  I see these 1/4 adapters that are XLR to 1/4 inch, they can be use or have different ones that are opposite,  low htz to high htz and opposite high htz to low htz?   Sorry for novella.    If you don't see this post, anyone,  please, feel free to chime in.  Education is awesome.   I appreciate all.

I bought a krk rokit 7 g4 pair. U know what cables I need?

Hi. I have a PA system with 2 speakers. I’m trying to add another passive speaker (bigger with bigger subwoofer for bass) that has 1/4” and speakon connectors (both). Right now until I figure out how to connect all together I’m using the small active speaker with the big one. I have been checking the speakon splitters and thinking if that would work if I connect it to the small active speaker and then connect the 2 passive speakers to it. Or maybe I would need to get a mixer to connect the big passive speaker to it if it doesn’t work with the splitter. What do you think? What is your advice on this? Thanks for your help and time.

PLEASE EXPLAIN WHAT IS A TIFFANY STYLE RCA CONNECTION, MOST AMPS COME WITH TIFFANY STYLE RCAs BUT NO INFO HOW TO CONNECT THEM TO HEAD UNIT. THANK YOU MR. RUSSELL

please please help me. I have a speaker vintage with a brown rca Jack pretty sure it's called an rca and there is no brown on my receiver. what colour do I plug it into???

....does anyone know if an xlr output connection will also send out power?  .....I have a powered subwoofer that has an output xlr connection......I'm wondering if I buy a passive speaker with a speakon input connection and buying an xlr to speakon wire, would it power the passive speaker?

My old tv have rca...no optical and headphone jack.

I was looking for some information about 2 RCA Male / 2 RCA Female Piggyback to 3.5mm cables,  I have only one of them was wondering if RCA to 3.5 would downgraded the sound L and R audio channel

LEYKIS 101

Standard XLR cables are usually 22-24 gauge and are good for transmitting line level signals to powered speakers. Passive speakers connect to amplifiers, which have peak power. SpeakON  cables are designed specifically to transmit speaker level signal from an amplifier to a passive speaker. When you said XLR can be used in speakers did you mean powered speaker? SpeakON cables will be overkill for a powered speaker however. Correct me if I am wrong but comparison between SpeakON and XLR is like apple and orange comparison.

Which brands do you think its the best for audio and speakers?

I keep laughina at his name "Kennis",, becase it makes e thik of Mr. Liu Kim from South Park calling Kenny "Dennis" haa

Sweet....

I'm having an extension built...
I want to have speakon wall sockets... So do I just Daisey chain them...

IE output from amp going into Left channel input in the wall, then from that initial input Daisey chain one speakon socket to the next....
Repeating the process for the right channel....

I think the XLR midi cables sound the best between my tube/optical compressor and mixing table. 


What about you guys?

I understand XLR cables are mono. Can I use a 5-pin XLR however as stereo?
Could I then find an TRS-to-5-pin-XLR adapter to make my signal stereo?

Why you did not said that audio xlr can be two tipes . ? I mean xlr microphone cable,and xlr speaker cable ?  Both is not the same .

Thanks it would be more helpful to actually explain what these thing are used for and what they are being hooked up to

YOU MAKE ME LAUGH, WHAT WAS THAT AGAIN? IF YOU TRIPPED OVER THE CABLE THEY WILL NOT COME APART...RIGHT...BUT THE SPEAKER OR WHATEVER IS CONNECTED TO IT WILL HIT THE FLOOR....LOL

Speaking about a TRS male 1/4 inch connector that goes into a mic interface, what would be the proper size? (16AWG, 18AWG, 20AWG, 22AWG, 26AWG, etc??) Thanks a lot!!!

I have an XLR with Jack input that fits my phone. Will it be able to work through my phone?

Good video, but you can absolutely use a speaker cable for a guitar cable. The resistance though the larger gauge wire is less than in the smaller guitar cable, so it will work just fine. And you're right using a guitar cable as a speaker cable is bad. The wires are thinner in the guitar cable, so  the resistance is higher. There is lot more power required to drive a speaker than to carry a guitar signal, and yes it can damage your amplifier.

Is it ok to convert 1/4 to RCA?

No.   I do it all the time.  But you want a decent Y splitter RCA to 3.5mm.   Some cheaper ones, have less flexibility... or can be too flexible and a good bend can mess up or cut the break the frayed copper in the line or especially at both points where the RCA or 3.5 mm connections are adhered to the cable.  You want a nice snap for feel click/clic  when plugging that 3.5 mm into your device, you've then got  a good R/L channel connection.    Also, consider length... I've some long ones for across the room portable stuff and some shorter ones where equipment will stay put.   Peace out.

"1/4 inch, instrument, guitar cables" - they were called phone jacks on PBX boards in my days.

I have balance cable  problem , I have to go from 4.4 pentaconn  dac output to my Mackie HR824 Mk 2 monitors.  I have to two choices Xlr3 pin or balanced 1/4 TS  Can you make me a pair 7 feet  long

Whats better connector for low freq(bass). Balance or unbalance?

Definitely im better now

All this time, I thought the "I"s in "MIDI" made it pronounced like "tie-dye" instead of like "Minnie."

Does the the length of the cable effect performance ie if you make up a daisy chain ?

Great video with lots of good information! It can however be a little confusing to state that jack cables are usually associated with instruments since they can, as you clearly state later in your video, be used for a connection from guitar to amp, mic to pre-amp, speaker to amp, synth to amp, mixer to amp, FX pedal to mixer, pedalboard to patchbay etc. Same with XLR connectors; they can be used for mics, synths, amps, speakers, patchbays, DMX etc. You do cover it but sometimes it seems you're contradicting yourself when you say it's used for audio but then after that stating it's also used for data (DMX). Anyway I'm nitpicking so I'll stop now; great video overall ^_^

Hi, I may have missed it but which one is the  'line-out 6,3 mm?' Or is that the same as the '1/4 inch'?

How are xlr cables plugged in? And unplugged?

Thanks for the info. QUESTION:  I do karaoke gigs and I have power speakers. I do not use an amp. My speakers are plugged into my  pro/fx mixer. Wouldn't I get less (or no) interference using instrument cables instead of speaker cables?

Can you use a guitar cable to connect powered speakers from the mixer in an emergency?

I think I’m using the wrong connectors for my Rokit 10” 😓 1/4 I get static time to time. So should I switch them with the XLR male ?

Female connector named Jack.
Makes total sense in 2020 😶

I bought an old mic amplifier on Ebay. It has a Bogen label on it but I think it was either put on or it has been altered. The only outputs it has are 2 groups of BNC jacks labeled 25 watts. I have never seen BNC jacks used with audio before. I have been buying old  and new amps for 40 years. Any idea what they had in mind?

Direct input box?

Hold on you are holding up a mic cable and talking about speaker cable connections ! Microphone leads can't handle the kind of current that runs through it to drive speakers and could prove extremely dangerous if used as a speaker lead.

You didnt cover Din connectors

Hmm, female end is Jack not Jill, that's pretty gender fluid.

this video is a try not to laugh challenge

1/4' AKA TS, (Tip Sleeve) stereo 1/4" AKA TRS (Tip Ring Sleeve)

IS ALL DEPEND WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO CONNECT ON THAT 3.5 MM JACK. THE 3.5 MM OR 1/8 TIP COMES WITH DIFFERENT LINES TOO. THEY COME IN MONO AND STEREO. FOR EXAMPLE, A HEADPHONE JACK TIP HAS TWO LINES, AND IN SOME INSTANCES COMES WITH 1/4 JACK ADAPTER WITH THE TWO LINES. YOU CAN USE THE 3.5 MM (1/8) IN SOME DEVICES, LIKE A LAPTOP, OR EVEN A MIXER, LIKE THE  NUMARK SCRATCH MIXER.  THANK YOU.

 @djjammindave  He never mentioned the difference between TRS cables and TS cables, it's funny because that's why I actually came to watch this video. You seem to know your cables David. I have some q's if you don't mind answering - when do you use a TRS cable and when do you use TS cables ? I know a guitar cable to amp is TS. And learned from another vid you use TRS going from the output of your interface to your studio monitors, is this correct so I purchase TRS for that ? I have a Focusrite 2i2 where else can I use a TRS cable ? is a TRS cable also the same as a balanced cable ?my setup right now is just the focusrite and studio monitors which on the back have 1/4 inch inputs for TRS, a guitar and an amp and also I mic my amp with a dynamic mic. For vocals i have a condenser mic my question is what type of xlr cable would  i get to use for these two examples of mics, one for micing the amp with a dynamic mic, second what type of xlr cable do I hook up for a condenser mic, i guess my exact question is how can I get the highest qualities for these two examples I gave. I know guitar cable is unbalanced and xlr cables are balanced but what's the difference when you talk about TRS (tip ring sleeve). Thank you in advance.

I have a dead speakon  is it maintainable or do I have to buy a new end?

The question I can't seem to find an answer for is. About balanced and unbalanced connections. If your instrument Output Balanced and you have an interface with unbalanced input or vice versa. Does it work either way?

Is 1/4 inch also referred to as 6.3 mm? Is that the diameter or circumference of the jack?

I like your presentation, but there are some glaring errors. One of which is DMX cables. What makes DMX cables special is the "Low Capacitance" wire that is used, that's what allows it carry those digital signals. A DMX cable can be used as a microphone cable in a pinch with no noticeable degradation of signal -  however, lighting guys don't like it and get miffed when their DMX cables start disappearing. And vice versa a regular microphone cable will work in a pinch for DMX applications, but keep your runs as short as possible and make sure to use the 120ohm terminator on the last device. Even after all of the precautions of making sure that the correct DMX cables are being used,  I still had to cross my fingers, as noise comes from all over the place and bleeds in to the cables and grounds of the equipment. Watching my choreographed light show go completely bonkers and out of control. LOL... a spectator commented that it was the best light show he had ever seen. Anyway, you might want to reevaluate some of your other comments, for instance the difference between instrument cable and speaker cable using 1/4" plugs. True an instrument cable will allow a speaker to operate - but not recommended and for the same reason that you mentioned. But! on the other hand a (non shielded) speaker cable will work between an instrument and amplifier - the but part is the nasty and obnoxious 50/60 cycle hum coming out of the amplifier. (the voice of experience) Bandmates and soundmen don't like it either....

Euroblock?

Yooo... You look like Blake Shelton..
anyway nice video... Thank you. 👍

Why would you use a XLR for a speaker? The XLR is 22AWG. I have never seen a XLR for power to a speaker. I have seen a XLR to a powered speaker, this just sends balanced audio to the speaker for the amplifier in the speaker.  Oh, the old Bose had them. That's been 25-30 years ago.

Also can you give your recommendation for the best quality speaker cables? Thanks!

copper is copper.  copper does not understand analog vs digital.  what does matter with copper, is the appropriate diameter cable for the amps and ohms being pushed through it, as well as shielding to prevent cross talk and interference.  

I've used cat5e cable as speaker cable.  It worked.  Didn't sound great, but it worked.

1/4" connectors were designed to convey signal, not current. They simply don't have the surface area at the point of contact to efficiently transmit power. The fact that they became so common for speaker connections in some market segments (mainly guitar amps but also pro audio) is mildly baffling but I guess it's just one of those things. 🤷‍♂
11:43 Speakon connectors were specifically designed for moving power loads from amps to speakers. They have much more surface area at the point of contact than 1/4" connectors.
Even XLR makes more surface contact than 1/4" connectors.

Why is the instrument cable called a 1/4? What makes it a 1/4?🤔

Speakon male and female are the other way round to what he says

How can I plug my ipad into my guitar amp with the line level pesking sound?

I’m trying to find out if I need a TRS cable from my sound board to my monitors, or a TS cable.

Thank you for this, Kennis. It was really very helpful. That said, I have a question. I decided to check my 1 month & 10 day old "speaker" cables (used to connect my home studio Tannoy monitors to my Mackie mixer), and the 6' Pearstone (TRS to XLR/M) cable says "Professional Microphone Cable" on it. I mentioned the age because it's a week and a half past my 30 day return window :(  Is this ok? You mentioned instrument cables are not recommended for speaker connections because they'll get hot, may cause damage, etc.... Should I change the cables? Note, due to a recently rigorous schedule, I have not yet plugged up and tested any of my new cables or the new mixer.

male and female ends? isnt that a little sexist

Any idea what type of connector it is that I have on my Fender Acoustasonic 40 Watt Amp?  There are two of them # 1 and #2  Thank you.

Price

There are some 1/4” to RCA cable, for connecting a keyboard output into a RCA input in the market, does that do damage to the instrument or the amp?

Kennis russel. I have been working on my set of 2 Surround recievers from the late 80s and early 90s. And what intrigues me is this "GND" Screw connector. WHAT THE FRICK DOES IT HOOK UP TO!? I HAVE BEEN RESEARCHING FOR LIKE-A YEAR NOW. Does it hook up to an Antenna? A Turntable for Vinyl? I DONT KNOW. Please make a tutorial on a GND screw on connector for recievers.

It should work, but you'll just end up with an "unbalanced" setup.

I get that a lot.

 @kennisrussell  cool 😁😊

🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣

Kennis Russell  Thanks for the reply back. Much appreciated.

You need some type of audio interface. An AI takes the digital signal from your ipad and coverts it into analogue signal, which is what guitar amps produce. There are some that are really cheap and some that are really expensive. Call Sweetwater and they'll answer all your questions and give you suggestions on an AI

Same😤

 @kennisrussell  Thanks, Kennis! You're amazing for replying on Christmas Eve. Have a great one!

Looks like a combo jack, which means you can use 1/4" or XLR. There's one for each channel to only use that particular EQ stack.

Thank you, I appreciate the information.  So I could connect a microphone to that jack, then?

I used that type of cable to connect my synthesizer to home stereo aux-input, years ago. Worked fine for that.

It hooks up to a phonograph player to a stereo reciever to do the thing that you said it does.

 @willivers4249  Yeah the ground screw is used for record players / turntables which usually have a pair of RCA (white/red or black/red tulip) outputs and a separate wire with a little fork that you connect to the screw before you turn it so it tightens up and holds the fork connected to the screw.

GND stands for Ground. (I'm certain)
It's for connecting a ground line which can be for safety or to prevent noise. (I'm almost certain)

I found out already.

Now i understand why connectors are termed as 'male' and 'female'😂😂😂

Whats the point of the background music?

I have a question relating the difference of speaker and instrument cables: i know how the cable itself differs, but is the plug any different? Would it be safe to solder a plug from an instrument cable to a speaker cable? Had to toss one plug from my speaker cable.

I don't think you are right how you downplay the advantage of a balanced cable connection. If you run a long cable that is not balanced, you risk picking up noticeable noise that a balanced scenario will take care of. There are also shielded cables that can make a big difference for interference.

Very handsome

Him: 1/4 inch
Me: 6.35 or Jack

RIP 3.5mm

This entire video is an elaborate sex joke

Every gifted green minded can easily understand the male and female jacks.

how can you give this video a thumbs down.. how is that even possible lol

You mentioned all important connectors and touched on a few important pitfalls, but honestly I feel that your explanation was not all that clear and that there were some things you got wrong. I think that a novice watching this video would feel bombarded by technical jargon and ultimately not take much away from this because the foundation (different signal levels, balanced vs unbalanced) is missing. I believe it would have ultimately been a more logical order for the recipient's brain had you first gone into the types of transmission (signal levels and balanced vs unbalanced), then into the different cables needed for that and ended with the connectors one can find on those cables.
Plain wrong is that using a DMX cable for audio would cause no transmission and that using a 1/4" speaker cable for an instrument would cause no transmission. In the former case, there will be increased noise and potentially a loss of data, but it could work in a pinch, and in when using a speaker cable for a guitar, it will also work, but it will be very noisy because of the lack of shielding.
Additionally, I think it would be important for people to know about NL2 and NL4 Speakon  because an NL4 plug will not fit into an NL2 jack. Powercon is also a connector I would have liked you briefly touch on simply because of the visual similarities.
Something that might confuse someone who has only watched this video is an XLR/1/4" combo jack. These look very alien until you know what they are.
I also think that in the area of Speakon, XLR and 1/4", it's not very useful to know the connectors without knowing all their purposes, especially in regards to balanced/unbalanced and signal levels. It would have been useful to go into TS vs TRS. TS stands for tip/sleeve and it's a 1/4" connector with just one plastic ring, separating the contacts into tip and sleeve. TRS stands for tip/ring/sleeve and these connectors have 2 plastic rings, separating the contact area into the tip, a ring and the sleeve. Whereas a TS speaker cable is the same as a Speakon cable, just with different connectors, a TRS cable is the same as an XLR microphone cable, just with different connectors as 1/4" TRS cables are usually used for balanced audio transmission. You would typically find 1/4" TRS jacks on the high impedance input of a mixer (sometimes labeled with hi-Z or a guitar symbol) and these inputs are usually meant for line-level connections, for example between one mixer and another mixer. If a mixer has a 1/4" mains out, this is also usually TRS.
Another little, and niche sidenote is that on a digital mixer or other professional digital equipment, you might find 3 pin XLR inputs and outputs labeled AES/EBU. This is a digital audio signal, so you should not use a normal microphone cable for it, but instead a 3 pin DMX cable. The DMX standard requires 110 ohms whereas AES/EBU requires 120 ohms, but this is close enough for it to not make a difference. The manufacturers don't differentiate either.
Also, some of the novices that I come in contact with on the job could have really used some instruction on how to use locking connectors. It unfortunately happens too often that people just yank them out by force, destroying the jack in the process. I'd much prefer if they were to ask, we've all been there (a Speakon female-female adapter is what once got me). A PSA on that would have been great: If it takes a lot of force, you're doing it wrong.

He wasnt right when he said that balanced and unbalanced cables produce the same sound, thats just not true. Unbalanced cables pick up noise whereas unbalanced cables do not. There's a reason why most audiophile headphones, DAC's, amps, cables, etc are all balanced.

17 mins and no info regarding balanced and unbalanced cable?

I hate how they make so many connectors for just transfering sounds...

You're 41?

At best you mite be a studio guy but your not in the industry and a lot of what’s your saying is wrong.

Thankyou sir

I did a thumbs down, and I did watch the whole thing. I have never seen a good quality Host Cable, They use cheap connectors (except on their Speaker Cables) and the balanced and unbalanced cable they use is mid-range.   Also  "Ohmages"  ... Hmm!

You don’t know what your talking about.

Great video

Simpler times. People today would argue that there’s nothing male about it 😂

And i understand what are you thinking😂😂😂😂😂

🤣🤣🤣

Bernhard Löw 100% you can the connector is the same as long as its a mono connector with only 1 ring instead of two.

Videos For fun  thanks very much!

Haha, damnit!

Gotta be 40 then.

For example?

Why is the instrument cable called a 1/4? What makes it a 1/4?🤔

