For editing PID, I find it's much faster to set up a remote control with three knobs that I can use to tune the PID values in real time. Changing the values in code and then transferring it to the mechatronics takes too much time and is frustrating so the extra hardware cost is usually money well spent.

Looking forward for the second part of the video.

you should really dive into the ESP32.  On a project like this where your making many changes it would be very helpful to flash it OTA.  Not to mention you would also be able to get information back to you over Wifi to get live information at your PC.

I like the bravery of you balancing the hammer right beside your laptop.

This is a great example of a real world design!

Finally A Robot Project

You could get NEMA 8 or NEMA 11 motors. Going from the first ones to a NEMA17 is like saying a bicycle didn't work so I used a tank.

Amazing project thumps up..

An excellent robot

Amazing content. Good luck

I’m looking forward to the time travel video. 😺

Awesome robot!! Respect from a beginner, keep inspiring us!!

Great work... ❤️❤️❤️ from Bangladesh.

Very cool! I've been wanting to do a PID project for the longest time. More like a puzzle and learning experience. I wish my college mechatronics class had something like this. Thanks for sharing!

wow really nice work

Nice video 👍👍

wow great video

wow! a cool project. I am looking for your second balancing robot video

Great video,,,

Thanks brother  :))

Sam 🎵✌🏻

Nice project

That's such a good idea :))))) thanks

 @ELECTRONOOBS  very surprised to hear that you haven't thought of this smart idea for online pid tuning before :)

Another solution is to design a simple interface in python or matlab where you can adjust the set point an pid values and see the response on a graph, and the comunícate the values via UART communication (or Bluetooth in this case).

Pid line follower 👌❤

Hardware cost???     I just set up screen on a phone with sliders.   Zero cost.   Set up a web interface then access it with the browser on the phone

🤣

Very amazing

nice

Excellent video. PID controllers are always difficult to trim but this is an excellent example. Thanks and glad to be a patron of the channel

Great.

osm video sirji

Nice

Cool

Muito Legal seu projeto!! Saldações do Brasil.

Yeah I also thinked before

You make the coolest pcbs and I like how you're not afraid to show failed prototypes. Message me on patreon. I have something really cool to send you.

What a great video. So much neat stuff

There is nothing wrong returning to the basics from time to time, i sometimes "brush" some of my calculus I notes from college years just to be sure i'm using the right integrals rules and derivations too. Anyways, great video as usual, top notch content.

Going the opposite direction would be good too. Make a balancing you can stand on

I made iron station very accurate using machine learning you can see it

I have most of these parts or equivalents. You got me interested.

Great video!  Unless I’m not looking in the right place, where is the FollowUp video to this one?  I can’t wait to see more on this balancing robot!  Thank you for sharing your knowledge! 👍👏👌

You can still use them if you use bearing on both sides of the wheel. Just like how a bicycle wheel gets supports.

✌😍😍🔥

Hi,,,,please continue make BadAss Tank, with your 3d print remote

Great video!. Can you do a video on 4 quadrant dc motor control with Arduino?

Thank you very much!

Thank you!

Thank you very much!

Once again, thanks for a very good video. Pretty much informative. However, i think you left out some parts that i think are pretty much crucial. the most important being how to set the current for the stepper motors with those TMC2225. The other drivers have a potentiometer that one can dial on but when i checked out the TMC drivers, they lacked that potentiometer.

Muito fera parabéns !( Quero fazer meu monociclo já fiz estrutura e motor de 550 watts!! Vou chegar lá pegando algumas ideias!! grande abraço

Pid line follower test

Good one noob

This project is strikingly similar to "Your Arduino Balancing Robot" by Joop Brokking, especially the code. Please give him credit and link to his video.

such joysticks are actually purchaseable as "vr controller". They have bluetooth connectivity in few ways (selectable), as a mouse, keyboard (simulating keypresses). Not sure if tearing apart Wii remote and stuffing its corpse with Arduino is feasible :)

Thank you for this video , can you make metal detector with arduino , multi metal multi sounds , for 3 - 10 meter dedicated

Thank you Sir, for all of your videos. 
Sir,  If you review "jdy-40 " bt module, that will be very helpful for me.
Specially "at command, pwm pins and gpio pin  with arduino compatibilities and modified programme ". (I bought some jdy-40 module, but they didn’t work. I think there was a problem with bootloader or flash )  so it is very helpful for me, if you make a video with this module❤️

Hello sir, when will part 2 of the video come out?

Perhaps N20 gear motors for the little PCB guy?  Would like to see him alone without his huge shell. :)

You can also have it at 6 volts instead.  Some use it in micromouse competitions. Don’t look it up on YouTube as it is VERY interesting and you will want to build one if you haven’t seen them. :/

What about making something like hoverboard, where two half can tilt separately, you won't need a load on the top

I noticed your DIY projects. I used to work in prototype at Flextronics and was thinking of a hot air parts removal system. I got a Shark steam Mop professional. It has a heater unit and adjustable air pump system inside. Was wondering if you could see, think, whatever you want if this is a feasible project that would function. These heating units already have a tube hole at top. So hot air could be funneled into a specific spot. Also the pump has speed settings. Just don't know if it will function with air only and no water. Or it has heat control to control overheating etc?

also consider using BMS for batteries and enclosure around pack. Trust me, i know how LiPos can be dangerous when mishandled ;)

想請問為什麼我的兩個輪子轉動會不同方向，程式是遵照您發布的版本

ditch the spiked wheels. use a smooth one

Great explanation , but can someone clarify me on the timer interrupt to create pulses. If the interrupt is to be trigger and generate pulse each 20usec, does it mean the stepper will turn in constant speed until error is eliminated (robot stood upright) ? I' am a bit confuse on how the PID output manipulated the interval between pulse 😥

better to make tires flat, it will improve stability and surface contact

Is part 2 out yet, I didn't find anything?

Can we use ULN2003 stepper moter ?

hi, which step motor should you buy?

Is a part 2 coming?

Eventhough your videos are informative❤️❤️❤️
They are coming too late😕😕😕

I think you should have at least mentioned Joop Brookking channel in the video since you used his code

You had to make a complimentary filter ehh? I have the stuff to make a mini one. I have a bno055

Pid line follower

this hc-05 in conector is not that well idea in my line follower after some time he start losing  connection with my phone because of it so if it works its ok but if you have problem with conncection i think i is because of it💚

No need to burn bootloader to atmega chip?

Awesome little robot! I love it. One question though: why did you choose a stepper motor instead of a DC motor + rotary encoder?

Do you have a way so I can order the PCB from PCBway? Thank you.  Thank you for your videos!

Those super tiny stepper motors are quite difficult to work with as a hobbyist. I bought a box of 70 of them months ago and damaged about 10 of them in the process of getting one of them working. sad time

Actually, I need to learn more about wire library and the registers and all this things (0x1B, 0x3C, 0x3B, 0x6B) and what they mean..... So if anyone can help me to find more resources about it.

Motor Driver: L298N
• Two DC Motors
• IMU Sensor: ICM-20948 (connected via I2C/SPI)
• Microcontroller: TM4C123GXL
Would you please give me some pointer how to get my 2 wheels self balancing robot to balance. my robot moves forward and backward but not balance

Great video, do you have a video explaining Bluetooth module?

Shouldn't there be a library to help auto-tune the PID by now? 
I see no reason why it can't be done by letting the machine monitor the time it can stay still as new values are tried.
If you go that way, you'd want to hang it with a string to prevent if falling over of course.

Machine learning pid iron station very accurate 💪💪🙈😎💝

I also want to make balancing robot  could you please send me these motors

Thank you so much for making video on this i have two questions
1.) Can we use autoPID library for balancing it?
2.) Is it possible to build a fuzzy logic algorithm for balancing this type of robot.?

You might get better results with a state space control method.

Is easier to control the real speed and also the speed is not affected by the battery voltage change...

Not yet. The remote will be made in a future video ..

 @ELECTRONOOBS  you make the coolest stuff.

Be a good use of a genetic algorithm. Get it to learn to program it's own PID.

Old harddrives etc have steppers in them. Those first tiny ones are from DVD drives.

Maybe but the code would be a bit different if you use a PID Libra

PID math does my head in, Fuzzy logic I understand better.

