Fantastic, thank you so much!  I have quite advanced knowledge of filters and the numerous possible configurations etc, building and partly designing a huge synthesizer is a mainstay and nessecity to know about them, and I've built quite a few different ones big and small.  But the way you explained how the RC time -constant comes to be in one sentence really cleared away the mid on my understanding of exactly what makes it tick. 'The capacitor has no time to charge up to the top voltage at high frequency while it does at a lower '.  Genius.

Really looking forward to all the next installments in this new series.  These type of episodes are really my favorite. As is the  'Classic circuits you should know'. I hope you will also year is to many more of those in the near future.

Good stuff. Keep them coming! Basics are important!

Another very interesting video! Thanks!

Brilliant. Thanks so much. You have a gift for demonstrating in a way that is understandable for numb skulls like me.  ;-)

Great video on an important topic (think speaker circuitry)

practical knowledge... I love it
thankyou so much

Filters are cool. I remember using them back in the day for nefarious purposes. Thanks!

I have more experience with filters in audio systems. bass blocking and low pass. in midrange and tweeters. and low pass for subwoofers. great video . it helps me understand what was going on. seeing is believing!

Very cool videos

Thank you for sharing your information!   You rock!

Wish You have made remark about targeting power supply noise - 50/60 and 100/120 Hz.

GREAT demo!!  especially showing the waveforms.
...I hope you have done some like this where you mention capacitive reactance with the voltage-divider rule....really helps.
BTW:  Do you know of any videos on 'switched capacitor filters'?  I have an application and think the MF10 or (LMF100) chip will work fine, but can't find any application videos on it?
Thanks again...THUMBS UP!!

Great video, as always! Could you use that to clean the main in, from noise like RF. IME and hum?

Great video. Do you have a link to the decade resistor box

Hi!How can i make a switch that outputs a voltage depending on the strength of strike

Does this work for the input from a radio antenna to occlude signals above/below a certain range?  I know pass filters exist for them, but I'm not sure if just one resister-capacitor setup like this would work on something that's bringing in a whole spectrum of signals at once?

typo in title, filer instead of filter

I have a question. Can a get the link to Your film to my students as a practical application of the filters?

Thanks for the explanation! The constant is related to RC, but is there any difference between varying R and varying C on the end result?

Glad you enjoyed it!

George Chambers  what nefarious things can you do with filters ? Im new to electronics  and crime

+Shredder Thanks

You are welcome! New videos every day!

thanks

https://youtu.be/GqCn94Ksdbo

Nothing that would effect the outcome

 @learnelectronics  Thanks!

Can you show how to calculate FC 1/2(pi)rc. No one really breaks it down completely. They always skip parts. I just don’t know how to calculate the formula. I’ve tried plugging in R and C but people say I’m wrong because I’m not adding powers but I don’t see any powers to add so I don’t get it.

Thanks Paul :) So, this is the thing that was in the DSL filter tiny box just a couple of low/high pass filters!
Can't believe it's that simple!
" In an electronic low-pass RC filter for voltage signals, high frequencies in the input signal are attenuated, but the filter has little attenuation below the cutoff frequency determined by its RC time constant. For current signals, a similar circuit, using a resistor and capacitor in parallel, works in a similar manner. (See current divider discussed in more detail below.)

Electronic low-pass filters are used on inputs to subwoofers and other types of loudspeakers, to block high pitches that they can't efficiently reproduce. Radio transmitters use low-pass filters to block harmonic emissions that might interfere with other communications. The tone knob on many electric guitars is a low-pass filter used to reduce the amount of treble in the sound. An integrator is another time constant low-pass filter.[2]

Telephone lines fitted with DSL splitters use low-pass and high-pass filters to separate DSL and POTS signals sharing the same pair of wires.[3][4]

Low-pass filters also play a significant role in the sculpting of sound created by analogue and virtual analogue synthesisers. See subtractive synthesis. " (source) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low-pass_filter#Electronics

There are no powers, unless they mean calculating the reciprocal? Divide 1 by (2*pi*R*C). That's it. There are lots of low and high pass filter calculators online. Find one and plug some  numbers in and then try to calculate it yourself.

