That is an absolutely savage way to strip a wire.

Solder'a krenn.. Unikkk👍

Excellent

Eccellente! hai meritato la mia iscrizione al canale, sai spiegare senza parole.... un concetto che altri hanno reso complicato con i tecnicismi .....Ma per chi come me, che non ho studiato queste robe, non gli servono i lati tecnici, ormai nel semplice fai da te, si fa il copia e incolla per le cose elementari, ovviamente poi se si è in grado di comprendere i lati tecnici, a quel punto si è in gradi anche di insegnarli, quindi si elude lo scopo dei video. Volendo fare un esempio: un costruttore di automobili darà il libretto di istruzioni e manutenzioni di base, non il libretto di dati tecnici e manutenzione per l'officina riparazione, penso di aver reso l'idea, ovviamente sto rispondendo a tutti gli altri canali che per un concetto simile hanno dedicato anche oltre 15 minuti di lato tecnico. Se potevo mettere 5 like lo avrei fatto, complimenti davvero!👌💯

Video rất hay rất bổ ích cảm ơn bạn đã chia sẽ ok nhé bạn

جزاك الله خير

بسیار علی وپر محتوا   
تشکر

Good good good

YEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS!

هل هذاا. تستر او    ممكن بدل  الموسيقى كلام حنى نفتهم افظل وشكرا

О БОЖЕ КАК ЭТО КРУТО... ДАЙТЕ СХЕМКУ СРОЧНО...

Watching and sending support nice sharing

Terimakasih suhu ilmunya ,semoga berkah.

es exactamente lo que necesito, gracias.

Wow creative

Super działa dziękówka

Автор видео, походу китайцы тебя кинули на диодный мост и конденсатор, когда ты у них купил этот блок питания)).

Good job

Brawoo RANJID.

Creative video, thanks :)

Amazing

Hello sir I have a question , I'm connecting 3x3 piezoelectric sensor and produced at around 9v how can I use tranformer and how do I connect? 
Also I have another question I have connected rectifier to ac o/p of piezoelectric sensor and produced some volts but even after getting the o/p at the capacitor if I connect Dc to DC booster it is not working which is not giving o/p

stayed show your project

自製萬歲:)
利害.....!!

🇮🇩🎀sukses dan sehat slalu 🎀🇮🇩👍👍👍

Мостовой диод интересно, может диодный мост. И вообще это однофазный выпрямитель со сглаживающим конденсатором.

it is really brilliant in a guide for babies

charger se AC ya dc mele rhi the  jvab jruer denea

Pero sin necesidad de poner puente rectificador la salida ya esta rectificada ya tienes un (+) y un (-) 👍

Прикольно

Electro Boooom would say,  FOOOOOOOOOOOLLLL BRRRRRIDGEEE RECTIFIERRRRRRR !!!!!!

Mantul

Valeu é ótimo

Bom muito bom

Nice fingers

Great video

Senza offesa a parte che è collegato tutto correttamente, ma l'alimentetore che hai usato dovrebbe gia avere l'uscita in CC, il filo bianco dovrebbe essere il + e il nero il -, raddrizare ulteriormente la tensione non serve a niente a parte introdurre una caduta sul ponte, ma compensata dal condensatore. Devi usare un trasformatore normale se vuoi che serva a qualcosa.

Bng.
Apa bisa dioda 35 di buat,kaya gitu.

Thank you for sharing the video, it was very useful.  Greetings re-introduction

eh possível inverte dc para ac

Si es verdad ya tiene la plaqueta de rectificación

hize la prueba y si funciono recargue 2 baterias sin cargas solo se calento un poco el trasformador

Bike me lga skte he Kya battrey charge ke liye

can you make how to charge battery 12v ro 24 volts.

مبدع

What is it for? Lack of stabilization, low power

👍👍

Hola amigo una preg komo hago p ke mi amperimetro mida amperes en cc corriente directs

Terimakasih

Roberto Rodriguse👍

Listrik semakin murah dengan iverter

USB to 3.5mm audio cabel connect

شكرا جدا للفيديو والشرح والتعليق

طب لو الجاك الأبي صل بتليفون 3طرف كيف التوصيل

The components looks do big on ur hands.

J'ai essayé,mais ça ne marche pas.

Good

Para que eu quero esse circuito se o carregador já me entrega 9 volts cc?

دمت گرم

ေတာ္တယ္

Bạn Cho mình hỏi Điốt cầu KBU 1010 điện áp vào ~220 ; điện áp ra?

correct! the adaptor output is already in DC.😮😮?

c'est très bien pour l'explication

Me gusto

Mỏ hàn của bạn quá đỉnh .chỉ cho mình làm 1 cái đc ko

Muito obrigado, meu amigo, pelas suas informações, tão importante....!!!

Friend, I did something similar to turn on 12 12v bulbs, but my rectifier heats up too much. What could I use so it doesn't get too hot?

Bom dia quanto ficou a questão??

Gostei muito legal

Tại sao ở củ biến áp 9v ac mà qua cầu điốt lại là 15v dc

Ok man

А почему  на выходе 12 вольт,,когда на блоке питания 9? И зачем такому блоку питания размечанный Ч/Б кабель????

Super tips
AUGUSTINE violinist from Malaysia

nice

Sir yeh kitna amp ke liya use hota hain

how does that capacitor rating relates to voltage out put?
Im mostly interested to build magnet alternator so Im curriuse to know how its voltage regulator build or current cutt out if baterry reaches centrain Ah charge .

😊

Esto puede llegar a sustituir a un MB10F?

Parabéns pelo vídeo 👏👏👏.

quá tuyệt vời luôn bạn ơi 😍😍 tiện bạn cho tôi hỏi đấu như nào để con điốt 4 chân thành điốt 2 chân thường vậy?? cảm ơn bạn rất nhiều 😍😍

المحول اصلا يخرج DC فلامبرر لهذه الطريقة

Pak bos bikinin yg pake lampu LED  juga dong..serupa tp pake lampu indikator jd klu penuh biar tau.

Адаптер что он использовал и так выдаёт постоянный  ток, и за чем мост и конденсатор?...

Parabéns vídeo muito bom!

Rectification (ac to dc) ke lie Bridge rectifier ke bajaae Center tap transformer, jis men kewal dhao diode hothaa he, behthar he.

Thanks.

Muy bueno

橋式整流+电容1中濾波+电感器+电容中濾波=可得更直的直流(近穩压直線),在很多開関电源後面都可以看到

amigo posso troca capacitor de filtros de fonte de amplificador de 4700uf x 100v  por de 10000uf por 100x ?

how did you make a soldering iron used in this video??? please share me a link of that video.

9 Volts is DC Voltage. Y u can't used another power supply DC  out.

Thank you so much sir  but how to make  dc 12v 3A ? i need this adapter for my dreambox 800

اززحماتتون بسیارمتکرم👍🏻🙏🏼

من فضلك اريد تحويل ٢٢٠ تيار متردد الى ٣ تيار مستمر واحد  امبير  اعطيني الأجزاء التي تركب مع توضيح في تخطيط وشكرا

Tôi hiểu về cái đi ốt cầu và tụ 22000microfara nhưng tôi xem mà chẳng hiểu bác này làm gì

Actual voltage of the adapter is 11v AC not 9v. You can see waveform here : https://youtu.be/8WPJ1kHMwb0

FUUUUUUULL BRIIIIIDGE RECTIIIIIIFIIIER!!!

Ana Mina lemo3ejabine bihadihe. Le9ana wa atamana da3emaka li

in 220v .
Out = ????

I always thought a diode bridge serves to get DC from AC like 220v etc. ....

adapter  is already convert ac to dc why still using gbj2510 clarification plz

What is the best capacitor for this ? 
A High or Low UF number ?

Bonjour et merci pour ces démonstrations.
Je veux réduire une tension de 5 volts dc à 3 volts dc?
Quelle valeur de la résistance dois je installer dans le circuit.
Merci infiniment Pour votre aide.

Zzzalma

Just buy a 12v 3a power supply

You too, friend

Creative Duck ,,hello,,,use this proyecto for UP to 5 amps???? Or how many Amps it is usefull??? Thanks

that's true and thanks for that
but the problem here was....


When you measured the output with the DMM
IT WAS NOT CLEAR ON YOUR DMM IF YOU WERE MEASURING V AC or V DC


all we could see was a cheap , no name multimeter that was showing 15.3  V
but we couldn't actually see the setting


now.. yes
common sense dictates that a bridge rectifier with a smoothing capacitor will produce DC Output
but... THIS IS A TUTORIAL and you didn't show that very clearly


your wave shape video was a lot better , in my opinion
i mean for the kiddies that don't know how it works, it's always better to have a scope to show it




and in my opinion it's much better to first show
Half Wave Rectification (so they understand how the negative half of the wave is removed)
and then to see a pulsating DC without the inverted rectified waves
and to also show them the power loss through a diode.


then ......you bring in the bridge rectifier so that the purpose is made clear
- that we get the inverted portion of the wave on the positive cycle
- that we don't lose half our power in rectification
- and that the capacitor acts as a smoothing cap to smooth out the pulsating DC


but again, you didn't make this clear

 @martinkuliza  Tough crowd!

 @martinkuliza  : agreed. Still don’t understand how the DMM showed 15 when the wallwart showed 9. Either the DMM is not correct or the PS is unregulated. For it to be off by 6 volts, I wouldn’t trust it on anything important.

zap

No it hasn't
the Adapter output was 9V AC
the primary input was 240 V AC
it didn't convert to DC


he was basically using it so that he didn't have to manually step down the V AC
from there he basically just rectified the AC and smoothed it out with a cap.

look carefully at video 1m35sec. he already shown you.

Can't I just cut the wire of my 120v 60Hz LED work lights and connect the black to ground and the white to positive in my car

9v to 15v

Car fm Dc 12v Ac transformer valacauma

تحياتي لحضرتك

I loved that small plastoc box, from where to buy those

Без охлаждения?

F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F I E R ! ! !

MUY BONITO TODO PERO LOS EMPALMES PESIMOS

But we need a litle air for the box.

ac dc back in black

so approxiamtely you have: 9V AC *1,41= 12,69DC.if you want to have 12V DC stable output under load,from a 12vAC supply,what should you change/add?

Samsung !

Le transformateur à déjà fait

Tercumenin icine etmişsin ne zamandan beri dc den ac ye köprü diyot kullaniliyor

Pake solderan apa itu kakak

DC ke AC bagaimana bang?

Hola alguien sabe como se llama ese componente de 4 patitas?

AC to DC olmalıydı başlık !!

Para eso se han usado siempre,lo que 1a es  vcc out...

No le veo caso rectificar la corriente cd_ a _cd .

No  its  not an inverter.  In order. For your  a.c. led light to be used on dc  youd need a few mosfers and other transistors  to  alternerate the dc current

In video

add a IC7812 (12v positive voltage regulator), give you max 1Amp but heat sink required..

А на оборот можно зделать из постояного в перемнный 12в

Kya bridge rectifier dc voltage pr work krega

Bukanya naik turun heheh

Mas essas fontes já não vem retificadas?

این چی بود بچه من اینو با چهار دیود درست می کنم خخ ترانس شو هم سیم پیچی می کنم .لایک نداره .مهندس برق.تکنسین هستیم ما 😎😎😎

Apakah 12 volt to 15 volt ?

Bridge Rectifier diode number tell me plz

tutorial ter koplak yg pernah sy lihat. gitu kok banyak yg like ya wk wk wk. raiso mikir aku ha ha ha.

Show, gained one more follower,👍🇧🇷

Thanks

вот так вот  иностранцы без всяких условий создают шедевры

👌👍

Во гонит!

Le branchement de condensateur est le - et avec le - et le + avec le +

Видео как с помощью диодного моста поднять напряжение .

Eu não entendi,já n saiu corrente DC desse adaptador?

What is rating of rectifier is thism15 volt 6 amps?

esto es un fraude...
rectificando una corriente que ya es DC ?
jajajajaja

Hello, how if i want to result the output of 311vdc?

buenas tardes  xq te da 15 voltios si el  adaptador es de 9 voltios

Наверно через транзистор

Se você presta um pouco mais de atenção quando ele mostra a fonte vc vai ver que é uma rara fonte AC não sai retificado dela nao

 @valberjonesdecastro9071  O porque do fio polarizado então? (Fios da saída da fonte de 9v que se diz AC)

Nah iya,itu kn udh dc dari adaptor.judulnya ac to dc...

Это не щедевр, а как любят делать иностранны показуха, он ничего не поднял просто конденсаторы заряжаются до амплитудного значения напряжения, а на коропбе указана номинальное, судя по конденсатору который он вставил туда при первойже нагрузке напряжение просадит и устройство будет работать не корректно

saha wolf

u can use any bridge 3/5/6/8/10/15A and any power AC INPUT  :) 15V/2A IN = 15-18V OUT  :d

Los diodos de la  llave reticadora retiran Los puntos de la hola eletrica. Haciendo con q haya un aumento de la energia.

 @solrac7986  : I don’t think so.

claro el transformador es de corriente alterna a corriente alterna,un reductor,pero es alterna 9 volts...generalmente esos transforma a corriente continua x eso la confusion.....

👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏

Coisa de abestado se a fonte já e retificada praquê a ponte?

Can that circuet be used with alternator?
I want some thing to build for me ignition coil useing seperate rectifier and tap in those 3 phase windings on the alternator but Im woried about me lead acid baterry if it wuld explode .
So I dont realy have negative on the coil be me its e core type ignition coil with 4 pin gm ignition module .
So can the coil and those rectifiers you show with 4 pin gm ignition module have seperate grounding?
To not interfeare with baterry ore the altrnator voltage potential?
In the past I did try out hv ceramic capacitors on me ignition coil evry thing was great except the alternator its starting charge from 1200rpm goes up to 3000rpm that was problem for me .
So please any circuets that can protect ground reference voltage and protection please.

レギュレーターは付けなくていいの？

Más a fonte ja não vem retificada?

Can be use battery charger 12v?

This is adaptor to dc

پل دیود های جدید اینجوریه دیگه نمیخواد وصل کنی پل بزنی خودش انجام داده 4تا سر اورده رو تاش علامت~~هست یعنی متناوب و دوتا هم منفی مثبت خروجی

А чё. С магазинского блока переменка что-ли идёт?

I usually remove those from discontinued old VCR devices or use 4 1amp diodes to create a bridge rectifier.

You Taste tester for DC NOT AC OK

No ac there

Channel for maintenance of electrical equipment

Ok

Merci

ban cho minh hoi ,điôt câu đó máy A vay ban

Pra que serve

What was the point of this?

In the same process can I convert 14v to 80v AC current (comes from my bike engine it increases up to 80v when engine runs first) into 12 v DC ???
Or I have to add an 7812 ??

Reparación

Veja melhor o vídeo e irá perceber que a fonte não é retificada a saída dela é AC.

Not really I think

Житель планеты Земля да, полный идиотизм!

Assuming you already figured this out but after converting ac to dc with this setup you will need to add a voltage regulator to limit the dc voltage

Yes  but find a bridge rectifier  that can properly  handle that   voltage and current.    Once you convert the  a.c. to dc  you can use a buck converter  to further  step down diwn the high dc voltage to 12 volts.   Look for a buck converter  that  can reliable take in high  voltage  and step it down to 12 volts   and  one that  can be used to  charge a battery. Typically alternatives  already have bridge  rectfiers in them  because they charge your vehicle's  battery usually

Eso sale cc directamente del trasformador.... almacandidaaa  jajajaja

gawa ko ganyan  sobra,init ng bridge dayod paano yan  hindi mainit   kulang yata ng  capasitor

AC DC เป็นวงร็อคที่โครตเทพคับ

Titre mal traduit : il faut comprendre "utilisant un pont de diodes et un condensateur" et non "une diode et un condensateur de pont" !!!

Your Input is already DC 9v, why bother?

What if we input dc voltage instead of ac

Is ko hum dc to DC use kr sakte he

Hometheater में daobode कैसे चेक करे sir

LA SALIDA DEL ADAPTADOR ES 9V dc , no 9v ac

Charger me 9 volt DC hota he

descobri a polvora

Adapter là ra DC rồi mà bạn?

Alebo ultrakondenzatory? Zapojene v serii?

Om saya ada led 2 titik. Masing2 Led 20. Kalo saya gabung jadi 40. Kebutuhan diodanya brapa y. Rencana ikut aki 12v

Biat tidak terbakar / rusak

A chingao DC 9 Voltios + y - PARA terminales de AC  y sacas DC a 12  voltios DC

is diode number tell me

Mas essa fonte já sai 9v contínuo kkk então ai ficou Cc para cc

Не надо прятать мост в тесную коробочку, ему итак
жарко,посади его лучше на ребристый радиатор, там его место, он тебе спасибо скажет, да про термопасту не забудь.

quali sono i limiti di un condensatore :da ... a  microfarad . Se lo metto troppo grosso che succede ?????  O troppo piccolo ????

为什么会增压？9VAC变成了15VDC？

wrong he! see video 1m35sec. AC he!

busyet dah konten begitu saja yg like dan sub segitu bnyak..

bisa dipakai buat ampli power gak nih

What is the diaode name please tell me

Ciao, sul citofono ho una lampadina a 12 volt vorrei mettere una a led sempre da 12 volt il tuo circuito va bene? devo comunque sempre mettere il condensatore?Grazie

Is it run a 12v tv where total ac  voltage is 35

這是從直流轉換到交流嗎?

Why not just use a 9 volt ac to dc wall wart?

How can step down it

usa

But the transformer out 9v dc no 220v ac...

After Casing the electronic was looking so clean nice video

But plz explain how did we get 15 volts at output ??

هيه المحوله. تخرج DC. شنو فايدة التحويل. ممكن نفتهم

Polarity for connection not mentioned .incomplete

What's the point when you already have a rectifier...

Pero porque el voltimetro marca15 volts de salida del diodo cuando del transformador marca salida  de  9 volts

Amp.lod??

Thé transformer has already  done AC to DC so .

Ac den dc ye olması gerekmezmiydi başlığın?

Good

Good

Diodes

No, it 's transferring 9V AC to 15v DC by a 4pins bridge rectifier with a capacitor together.

If you used adapter bought from the store, that's mean you don't know how to build bridge rectifier for basic power conversion from ac to dc.

ت

Learn how FULL WAVE RECTIFICATION WORKS


Learn the steps
- do it on an Oscilloscope for yourself
- Take readings before Conversion
- Learn what Half Wave Rectification is and how it works
- Learn what a full bridge rectifier is
- Learn how it works
- make a model and test take readings
- Send and AC Signal into a Bridge Rectifier WITHOUT A CAPACITOR on the output,
Look at this through an Oscilloscope and see what you get
- then put on the cap, and see what you get


Basically the answer to your question lies in Understanding AC and DC and Wave Rectification
if we just tell you the answer, you're going to keep saying  BUT WHY,    ok


you need to test a few things and look up a few things and understand some fundamentals
does that help you understand it ?

It was 11v AC so when converted to DC it gains 40%, so becomes 15.4v DC

 @englishrupe01  but how did it for gain of 40 percent ?

المحول يخرج ٩فولتAc هو عمل تحويل من AcاليDc

O capacitor eleva a tensão.

so,no it hasn't.Transformers do turn ac to dc.The bridge rectifier does,not the transformer.

The transformer don't do this alone.

Para electricidad 110

I want to use RS401L bridge rectifier for having 12 volt from 0-12 , 3ampere transformer. But I get 20 - 21 volt from bridge rectifier.can I use it for 4440 double IC amplifier board?

i need dc to ac for 220v  from 12v or 24v

What kind of solder do you use, sir?

I thinks that adaptor already dc

Your solder, is it home made? Thanks

Faedahnya apa apa cobak tuh dari  adaptor dah output dc😌

Input 9v and output 15v+.......?

You just put a bridge rectifier on a 9v DC supply. The transformer already converted to dc.

Qc quá mất vệ sinh. Vô ý thức

有白线的是负极 弄错了

Yes

What cause, that 9V AC power supply can give 15V DC?

😘😘😘💛💖🌷

2:19 DC not AC

😄😄😄😄DC to DC😄😄

Didn't get it. What hell you did there?
I only just saw you turn 9v to 15v, that's it?

Thang Nay No Bi Cam

I'm hoping you can help. I'm trying to convert an older model train from DC to AC using a full wave bridge rectifier. Saw another video on YT a guy did it but he didnt show it well enough and could use some help. The rectifier is supposed to be soldered to the can motor but I cant tell exactly which wires to connect/solder where to the can motor. Could you possibly help?

Alat solder buat dari apa

The rectefire voltage go,s up too 1,4 x your alternated voltage

No you kan, jou must bring the voltage down with a 78xx voltage regulator example  7815  7812 Google For data

just by inverter.

I mean buy!

well you are wrong.The output is 9vac

Iya bos ,mf mau tanya power mobil ku itu tidak bisa hidup dengan trafo 5 a ,diperelel  dgn aki 5a baru bisa minta solusi,beli swetcing mahal

Ryan transformer says 9v  AC a wave sign means ac

The transformer was clearly marked "9V ~". "~" means AC. Watch it again at about 2:20

Ryan Hoke it says that it is in 9 v AC. Its kinda weird but it works

 @nilsz7354  ..

Ac ac transformers are uncommon nowadays but they are still around

Well if that is the case then they miss labeled the case also because a powersupply would be converting ac to dc and a transformer steps ac voltage up or down. I thought the ac symbol was the miss labeled item as ac 220 to 9v are not as common as they use to be.

This is normal AC - AC transformer in plastic box...

It seriously unregulated or the DMM is out of adjustment.

Ac it's a wave symbol

thats how bridge rectifiers work ;-;

tell ur dc require ment and current requiremt i ca help u out  see my videos

rectifiers dont convert dc to ac

 @gregvoigt551  a double bridge Rectifier made of 4 diodes will. Just need to know the right way to connect it. Saw a guy do it. He just didn't show the actual connections. His channel is Benz trains

Beli

i need...i want

Do not make fool to spectators you r using 9v Dc charger as source

Cocok buat 
Pemula

How many voltage is the capacitor

which bridge rectifier should i use for 12Volt 6Amp transformer.....  i tried bridge rectifire with 1n4007 diodes but it blasted after loading.

Amper ? M amper ??

Dioda nya berapa ampere bang?

But you were not supplying AC you were supplying 9 volts DC to your rectifier.  Why?

Adaftor itu kan arus yang dikeluarkan udah DC ,coba menggunakan arus PLN langsung apakah dioda bridge mampu

it is not clear ,

9v for 15v ?

This is not ac to DC daiod bridge is safe the current

So now you have 15 v DC

Lhaaa ? Kok pake bridge rectifier + elko lagi ? Kan didalam adaptor tsb emang udah ada bridge rectifier + elkonya dan udah jadi dc.. Klo inputnya dari trafo, nah baru bener... (^_*)/

its Upgrade DC From 9V to 15

How many amps is that DC able to provide after the conversion?

If the 9 volts output from adapter is DC voltage already,  why do you used a rectifier diode still?

power supply output is 9v DC :)

Apne jo bataya sab  se hik hai

out side 9 volt  ( how 15?)

1N series is only 1ampere use. The 7 indicate 700V.

 @sholimz  thanks

look closely to video 1m35sec, it is 9vac

9 x 1.414 x 1.2 = 15.2712 ？

Delete.

Not all "wall wart" transformers convert house AC voltage to DC.  (I thought the same thing until recently myself)  Some only step it down and keep it AC.  I did the same thing this fellow did before I watched this - the capacitor is to smooth out the DC and reduce the ripple.  I used a 22uF electrolytic (100v) and it boosted the 11 VAC to ~18 VDC.  Interesting that with the addition of the capacitor, the voltage went up 7 volts.

well, NO IT DIDN'T


because it didn't start as 9V DC
it started as 9V AC then the output was 15 V DC


but, i gathered that's what you meant to say ... right ?

see video 1m 35sec. the transformer output is 800milliamps. so around this figure only before the transformer burn-out.

An alternating current was drawn on the adapter.

Because it wasn't DC
if you pause on 1:34  you'll see
the 
OUTPUT  is  9 V AC   800mA
which he connected to the AC Terminals of the Rectifier 
TO PROUDE A PULSATING DC
which was then fed into the Capacitor to smooth it out to DC
simple as that

 @martinkuliza  How did he get 15v from 9v?

No..  it's 9 V AC

Capacitor up voltage to 15V after electric consumer down voltage

It's just a transformer not ac-dc converter

 @mohammedsaib3844  


well, NO thats not totally correct


he started with a Transformer / Plug Pack
input - 240 V AC
Output 9V AC
so... You're correct it didn't convert AC to DC


(but.. that was the point of the Bridge Rectifier and capacitor)


he used a 25V Cap (which is fine)
he used a Bridge Rectifier


and AT THIS POINT IT WOULD HAVE CONVERTED AC TO DC through Full Wave Rectification (we know this)


THE PROBLEM (in my opinion ) is .....


When he showed the Reading on his DMM it was not clear as to whether he set his DMM to V AC or V DC


i mean, we know that on the output of a bridge rectifier we are going to get a PULSATING DC
and then we use the Capacitor as a SMOOTHING CAPACITOR to give us the DC Output


BUT.. HE DIDN'T SHOW THAT CLEARLY
thankfully in his other video "WAVEFORM" he used a cheap arse hand held DSO to show the wave form


so. you can't say it's not an AC to DC converter, because it did convert AC to DC.
that's what the bridge rectifier did and the cap smoothed out the pulsating DC.

 Tem De Tudo  no regulation what so ever

output voltage increases bec. he uses 25volts.capacitor.

itu adaptornya sudah DC (lihat kabelnya warna hitam dan putih) artinya keluaranya sudah negative dan positive. So buat apa lagi rectifier?? konyol...

Itu kalau pakai batu batre berapa pcs ? 
Apakah bisa untuk ngetes lampu LHE 8-23W?

а зачем выпрямлять постоянное напряжение в постоянное ?

Farsante

very good video but you need one resister to protect output, otherwise the voltage would not be astable

The output voltage from the adapter is 9 volts according to the label, how come when you measure at the Terminal, it became 15 volts? ha,ha, funny!

diodes normally getting hot be careful when you put them inside the plastic box

De cuánto es el capacitor ?

9v ac a dc 9v??

Lhaaa ? Kok pake bridge rectifier + elko lagi ? Kan didalam adaptor tsb emang udah ada bridge rectifier + elkonya dan udah jadi dc.. Klo inputnya dari trafo, nah baru bener... (^_*)/

Ahoj mozem na dokonalejsie vyhladenie pouzit superkcapacitours?

e una tensione falssa bassa prava ammettere un carico vedi cosa sucede

O hello adaptor already give dc from ac....... Bull shit

ถ้าหม้อแปลงวัตน้อยแอมน้อยสามารถเพิ่มได้มั้ย

Ini gagu apa gimana

When adaptor is already dc then why you making this it will drop your 2volt

What type of bridge rectifier is thia

Not true my friend

Its already convert ac to dc why you put bridge rectifier?

Yep  9V ~~~ AC .... ...

Iya juga ya

Berfikir positif aja. Mungkin adaptopnya tidak ada dioda nya.

output nye akan mampu menyalakan apa-apa alat yang memakai kurang lebih 9VDC bersamaan 6 butir bateri eveready.

блок переменку выдает

 @Firefox3247  
так это тогда не блок питания , если переменку выдаёт , а просто стоит в нём один понижающий транс на переменку 9в и всё . хотя корпус у блока питания как у полноценного выпрямителя . первый раз такое вижу .

Can u mention the resistor rating

Hi Ronnie
hehe
- it's not so funny anymore is it ?

- Further to Victor's comment,  THE LABEL IS NOT ALWAYS ACCURATE that's another reason


- Lastly, you need to learn how bridge rectification works
i suggest you do this experiment 


Get yourself a step down transformer that goes from 240 V AC (or whatever your mains power is) to some lower AC like 12 V AC or 9 V AC or something similar


then.... (half wave rectification)  connect the output to a diode


- Using an Oscilloscope NOTE THE WAVEFORM
- Note that you lose the negative portion of the sine wave (thus producing a pulsating DC)
- ALSO NOTICE, .... YOU LOSE HALF YOUR VOLTAGE which is very inefficient 


now..  take out the diode and get yourself 4 diodes and solder them up in a bridge rectifier formation


- Then note the waveform,    Note how it inverts the negative part of the wave
- Measure the voltage at each stage of the process


- and basically LEARN HOW WAVE RECTIFICATION WORKS


- Lastly....  Next time, instead of laughing at someone,   UNDERSTAND THAT IN ELECTRONICS SOMETIMES THINGS SEEM WEIRD AND INCORRECT
BUT USUALLY THERE IS AN EXPLANATION
so instead of laughing and trying to make someone out to be a fool.... ASK A FEW RESPECTFUL QUESTIONS INSTEAD OF LAUGHING


because you could be the one that is then laughed at 
Lesson's in life mate

because 9 v of alternating current is the effective voltage, and the rectified one needs to be multiplied by the root of two, that is, 1.41. It turns out 12.7 volts. You have 15 v without loading ,. Under load will drop to 12v.

 @victoruzhos856  ..

diode is 3 amps. it will be OK because the transformer is only able to supply 800mA.

i don't know, I took it in an old electrical board :)

 @CreativeAndDuck  I can use ANY capacitor? The voltage or capacitance doesn't matter?

2200uf x 25 v

Tosse  gripe  a

MOLTTO INTELIGENTE MA SUPPONGO CHE APOCA CONOSCENZA IN MATERIA

See 1:36

its not already dc

Full wave

it does not, on the adapter is written 9 volts AC.... he even showed that.

I think that adaptor out put is 9v~

Diode harga beraapa

Tolong d d perjelaskan barang apa itu..

Please add voice

hi😊

18v

The true is ac dc dc and no ac dc

positive output in diod is negative sign in diod ?

It already 9v dc why connect a rectifier again?

can you do the opposite with the same circuit? or go from DC to AC?

Posso usar só enegia dc em casa? Exemplo somar baterias até formar 220v dc e televisão geladeira funcionar normalmente?

Мощный диз!

Abay pagal adapter dc supplier hota ha

Você é mudo.?

Não entendi porra nenhuma. O que tu fez ai? Só vi tu transformar 9v para 15v. Foi isso?

طريقه فاشله

Noe.

ac dow olol

Dc den ac deyil ac dc çevirdin

Автор не умеет пользоваться импульсным пояльником....

Sir ya capistor Q lagyia jata ha

buat sendiri dengan menggunakan 4 butir dioda biasa.

That was an AC to AC voltage transformer.  It outputs AC power.

 @thedillestpickle  haha no it wasnt

You can, but not with the same circuitry

Não, todos seus dispositivos eletrônicos fazem a conversão ac para dc pra só então funcionar, se ligar em 220dc provavelmente irá queimar o equipamento.

Anlaşılan biri yanlış çevirmiş 😂

But what are the component ratings?   What microfarad capacitor?

Can i use 12v and 9 amps instead of 9 volt plz reply me

It's a very simple rectifier system ..... I think if you put peak capacitors on the bridge rectifier it will be better.

আমার চ্যানেল ঘুরে আসতে পারেন এর থেকে ভালো ভিডিও আছে

Pourquoi en entrée vous avez 9 volts AC et en sortie on se retrouve avec plus de 15 volts DC merçi de votre reponse

J y u5

what the hell. u already have a ac dc transformer in the plug itself.

1) Sir how to convert 440v into 220v ?
2) sir how to convert 440v into 12 or 5 dc ?

ITS FAKE OR NO

Ac ke dc???...kalau dah pakai adaptor ngapain pakai rangkaian lain lagi....gue yg bingung apa yg buat video kurang kerjaan ya????

Для умных бюргеров! Это не мостовой диод а диодный мост! Когда от этих грамотеев избавится интернет?

Ok  ok felicitari

АВТОРУ
ПОСМОТРИ НА СВОЮ ЭЛЕКТРОСХЕМУ,  НЕУЧЬ! ЗАЧЕМ К  (-) МИНУСУ ДИОДНОГО МОСТА ТЫ ПРИСОЕДЕНИЛ (+) ЭЛЕКТРОЛИТИЧЕСКОГО КОНДЕНСАТОРА? Радует, что случайно правильно спаял!

these schemes were drawn 100 years ago. What is the point of repeating them?

there is already dc output in adaptor

n importe quoi a chier

Тупизм

O corretp é "retificador em ponte" Olha a gramática gente.

Kasmir ke scoperta?? Poi fai come un mio amico all'esame da O.M. che ha messo il condensatore elettrolitico coi poli invertiti e lo hanno promosso...maa

Boooo

YOU WERE NOT PAYING ATTENTION

at  0:16  it clearly shows  2200uF  25V

also you don't ask  WHAT MICRO FARAD IS THE CAPACITOR

Not all Caps are Microfarads  some are pico, some are just farads
you ask  WHAT IS THE CAPACITANCE RATING OF THE CAPACITOR

you can use any volts.

no its an ac to ac transformer

Gotta break a few eggs to make some eggs

400 v has 2 Phases take one and you got 230v.

Transformer.

you can see on this video : https://youtu.be/8WPJ1kHMwb0

what is up with everybody?Fake?How can it be fake?That is the way bridge rectifiers are made,and thats what bridge rectifiers do.Every wall wort that puts out dc power has this exact setup.Even the alternator that charges your car battery has this setup to convert the ac power from the alt to dc power to charge your battery.

Thanks for your comment.

Он иностранец сделаем скидку на не точность перевода

1:36 9V~ which is AC not DC, and if you measure the AC output without load you get about 11V~ AC, which means Voltage peaks of 11V * 1.4 = 15.4V aka a rectified voltage of about 15.4V -1.4V=14V DC (1.4V for 2 diodes per path in the bridge),  that is without load. With load of 0.5A - 0.8A, you will get something usable of about 12.5 Voltage (with some relative small ripple)

wrong

O usual há décadas é ponte retificadora

WHAT AC TO DC?,, THIS VIDEO SHOW DC and DC!!!!

So you miss named your video. Should have been called dc-to-dc absolutely nothing converter.

👎😑😐 The trasformer already converted to DC....don't need to put the bridge with the capacitator again..........

Im from indonesia 🇮🇩🇮🇩💖

no it doesnt.

See 1:36

Why would you reference a book that was based on ancient Sumerian writings? And then why would you have me look up a quote from the Bible when all religion has been corrupted by man? The word of  God is not written in a book. 
The word of God is stamped into our souls. 
Unless you're a sociopath you know right from wrong since you were a child. Consider this, there are many religious texts as old or older then the 66 books in the bible yet they were deliberately left out, have you ever asked why? I believe it's because there are first hand accounts of the beings that made us, witnesses to their high technology, descriptions of physical beings that were not angels or gods or demons. They were people. Not from around here who had such advanced tech they appeared magical or godly. The book of enoch is a perfect example. The tablets of thoth is another along with the Dead Sea scrolls. The bible was put together by men with an agenda as a means of controlling the population. Just like our school system in this country. So maybe next time you'd like to make a point, just say it.  I will not refer to the bible to make your point for you.

wrong

