Oh man I was waiting for that speaker test! At this point you must be teasing :)

MAN,We got to wait for part 3......smash that like button

You may have put thermal paste in but it doesn't look like you tightened the right hand heat sink.

Looking fwd to hearing this. One of my first kits (middle school) was an amp for my dads '85 Olds Custom Cruiser station wagon.

Nice little amp, looking forward to hearing what it sounds like.
I really like the idea of the digital synthesis chip. 
I really need to try and build myself a signal generator I wonder how well the chip in this amp would handle boosting a home made signal generator. Great job Paul, now I have a project idea to work on.

Cool kit, only one resistor in wrong orientation.🤣 I need more thermal paste thanks for the tip. A synthesizer and an Arduino sounds like fun if you can just find those old speakers. Waiting for "the rest of the story"!

I have a few wee amps but had to buy a set of 50 watt speakers on eBay.  They're made by Mission and cost me £45 but I think it was money well spent.  Most of these kits are rather optimistic with their output ratings but are still excellent value!

Role on part 3, let’s see what this baby can do 😏

can u try lm3886 tda 7294 and some d class amp. ?

can a center tapping transformer work for that to play

I want this circuit

Thanks Paul. Why don't you just use a 12V series bulb so that way you'll see real quick if there is a short, and you won't burn anything up if there is a short?? I love those little barrel power connectors. You can buy them by the 100's pretty cheap and they are easy to use. I put them in most of my battery powered testers so I don't have to use batteries. I even put one in my nice voltage standard that I have so I don't have to take it apart to install a battery when I want to use it.

I like the lil amp kits. I would like to get one I can actually use.  What is the most power output @ what ohm load? Tgabka

What's the watts? And in voltage range?

test sound ?

Does the capacitor had a positive and negative side? and if yes, how do I know where each goes in?

You forgot about the smoke test.............

Neat!
Do you do any rfid?

How old is this kit? The ST website said the TDA2030 is an obsolete part.

Epic choice of music. Use it for your speaker test 😀!!! Or better yet, use some of your previous osc   builds if you still have them.

No i just dont have any speakers wire bare wire connectors.

The side with the stripe is the cathode

 @learnelectronics   Thanks

Check out back videos

Its for sale right now on amaxon

Can i use 80w speaker

Sure

