Awesome design. I love the composition of thinking about  getting it pretty and functional.

SUPER👍🇵🇱

Great job my friend 👍 best wishes and God bless 🙌 ✝️🤝

Very nice instruction ❤

Is nice your proyect,

Show... parabéns.... amizade

💎 Joias

WOW

Thanks 🇮🇳

Me gusta este circuito quiero copiarlo

Nice project

👍👍👍

any chance you could drop the music and describe what you are doing by adding voice to the video? But do keep making more videos,

Good job this circuit is also good for bldc motor as logic sequencer.

Nice project
Would be nice if we had an explanation of what the components do as your soldering them onto the board.

Por qué no se puede hacer lo mismo con un mosfet más, osea para 4 lamparas

Thanks❤

als einfacher Lauflichttaster gut erklärt:👍👍
Einfacher geht allerdings eine eine variable und genauere  Lichtbandsteuerung mit galvanisch gekoppeltn NPN,PNP und NPN Transistoren im Wechsel.

Für jede verstellbare Laufgeschwindigkeit braucht man idealerweise überall einen zusätzlich einstellbaren simplen Frequenzgenrator der
die Spannungsquelle auf einer Seite per variabler Impulsdauer (Phasenanschnitt) und variabler Taktsequenz über weitere Leitung auf E ansteuert. 
und davor noch den gewohnten kleinem Leistungstransistor , (auch Mosfets) hierfür der ständig die Lichterkette neu synchron ganz antaktet. 
Sonst hat man nur ein sehr starrsinniges gar nicht, kalibrierbares Lauflicht (bei niedriger Temperatur sogar Ausfall ohne einen 
zusätzlichen Temperaturanpassregler) und man muß dann mit dem Taster obendrein alles jedesmal neu bei jedem Durchlauf 
manuell starten, oder über einen starren Taktgenerator mit Verzögerung. (Drum haben viele Lauflichter oft scheinbar 
unerklärliche Pausen.)

I just got a 2007 mustang gt/cs and have been looking for a circuit that does this for the blinkers. 2 problems for finding one that
A. Uses bulbs and not expensive higher output LED's that are powerful enough for turn signals on a auto ...
I want to use as much stock parts from the car as possible $$ saver.
... and
B. I want it to be a chaser, ie..
 Bulb 1 only
 Bulb 2 only
 Bulb 3 only
Repeat
Not.
1
12
123
So this is a great start for a circuit design which I'll need to beef up for higher amperage.
Tyvm
Dave S.

I had to change the capacitors to 22 uF, and the pot to 5K to get the right speed. I'm using 12 volt incandescent bulbs (10 per circuit) so I also put two diodes in series with the 12 volt supply so they would last longer (now 10 volts). Otherwise, good circuit, thanks.

Thank you my friend

Thank you my friend

Thank you for your comment, I will provide you with the way to create the project and also the circuit diagram This is channel style

Thank you

Thank you, you can see the link below the video in the description box to see the circuit diagram

 @inventorkr1  debería de hacer una tarjeta digital para adaptarse a cualquier  marca de licuadora, con su diagrama, espero que un día lo haga con 5 o 7 velocidades, un saludo cordial.

❤

Espero que hagas uno para 4 lamparas  yo lo he intentado  de añadir una etapa mas ,pero no funciona ...?..??

I am no electrician but why is the positive wire connected to the negative plate of the bulb?

wow :)

Nice. so show this can je manage To obtain  a long dotation séquences of light ON OFF? EXEMPLE FOR 30 OR 60 OR 120 Minutes?

02:12 bro can make a circuit like this more speed chaser along with min 13 --- 12volt  bulb .

I want 4 channel system plz reply

👋👋❤️❤️❤️👋👋

The video was great and
Can u make a video of how to make an inverter with a 10w mobile charger transformer using a 13003 transistor ?

Hola , ¿Para qué sirve eso?. Útil no es.

Can I ask for a schematic for self-assembly ?

Any equivalent part for FR407?

Do you think you could double or triple up the bulbs to make a chasing light frame?

I notice that the solder you use works very well,
where does that tin come from?
Regards
Rob

На сколько в таких режимах хватит этой фигни.

So if I used LED I would need a resistor added to each light for whatever voltage is required for that LED? Are the bulbs 12 volt?

What's the soldering iron name?

hi sir i made this circuit but not warking please help me sir this circuit can use 12v led

My friend, the power source that you connected is AC or DC

How much volt and wattage this circuit

No me gusta el cine mudo.

Sigue los mismos pasos y podrás añadir más de una lámpara

Sir ur here

Thank you my friend

Thank you  ❤️

You will have it

 @inventorkr1  thx sir

Yes, of course

Check out this store
https://inventor-kr-tools.com/collections/all

Yes, you can add 100 ohm resistors, the lamps are 6 volts, and you can use lamps up to 24 volts

https://s.click.aliexpress.com/e/_opyZ8H5

Yes, 12 volt lights can be operated. Check the capacitor values

Sir nomal filemt bulb workin but led strip not working what is the reason

 @sadusam45   Use 10uf capacitors, if it does not work, use 1uf capacitors

AC 220 V

 @Luiz_inventor  I mean the power that is fed to the AC or DC drive board of the hard disk

DC

6-24 v DC

6v to 24v

Forget the wattage, it's obvious voltage is wide ranging, it's the current draw, aka amperage that needs to be addressed for your use and the components...

Sloppy I reworked on strip board. Much better presentation….

Ciao, se dovessi implementare un tasto tristabile per comandare la sequenza? (avanti, indietro e fermo)

Sloppy I reworked on strip board. Much better presentation….

