3.7v to 12v Converter 👉 https://youtu.be/-37C1iLNPO8

Very nice sharing💖👍

So it's basically a simple continuity tester? Neat!

nice very beutiful and simple sir  for sharing

That Good and Number one for you ❤❤❤

When does the green led light up ??

That Good and Number one for you . Have a Good Nice Day My Friend ❤❤❤

Bhot Accha lga jugar p😊p

Well done!

Creative video, thanks :)

superwork😍💖

Thanks,like that.

Good work 👍

Testing Time Gayab Ho Gaya Good

Nyimak mas

А куда бузер пропал в итоге?

দারুন জিনিস

12 वोल्ट की बैटरी से एलईडी टेस्टर बन सकता है तो वीडियो बताओ लेड टेस्टर बनाओ

💥🤟

Poor buzzer never got it's moment on stage.

Hallo, ich weiss ja nicht ob es an meinem Bildschirm Liegt oder nicht, aber bei  mir Leuchtet die grüne Lampe immer und die rote Springt ahalt hin und her.

könnten sie evtl sagen wie es aussehen wird, wenn es Defekt ist  Rot+grün / oder nur Rot. LG

hello,I like this post, please make more

thanks bro

Yes. Use Buzzee.

Thanks and welcome

Same to you

thanks

Thank you

Thank you too!

thank you :elbowcough::stayhome:

Welcome :elbowcough::stayhome:

Thanks ✌️

welcome bro

:yougotthis:

:yougotthis:

Plz you can use active buzzer. I have passive buzzer.

But this does not show liking problem of transistor between E and C and also no news from hfe ?

Why is there a buzzer when assembling the circuit but when testing the components the circuit no longer has a buzzer?

Nice❤

I think this circuit for only continuity

Good tirik

👌

What is the function of the green light for?

can i use 2n555?

👍👍

👍👌

Hello guys, is there anyone try and succes?

Good ...can add buzer

what is the function of green light?

Make video 🍀Resistor 🍀 watt  checker Tester.  please

Where's the buzzer?

सीरीज बनाते समय  bazer लगाया और टेस्टिंग के टाइम पर bazer कहां गायब हो गया  छपरी आइटम

220 volt to 1.5 volt convert use with transistor charging no any video in the world without transform

Where does your buzzer gone after 2:19

What is the voltage of buzzer.

where is the buzzer afrer tiu attach it?

Thanks 🔥

enjoy

:yougotthis:

A good component

I think it just shows that power is ON to the circuit .

Power indicator

:yougotthis:

:elbowcough::stayhome:

yes. you can add a 3v active buzer.

Component is good

It is nomal transistor

यह काम करता है। हटा दिया गया क्योंकि मेरा बजर काम नहीं करता। लेकिन खुद का उपयोग करें.

It is not working but. You can use Active buzzer.

how many volts Bazaar..?

3V or 5v is best. But using Active Buzzer. not working passive bbuzzer.

is is not working but you can use no problam

-in +in?

پس بازر برای چی بود ؟ صدای بوق نداره! در هر صورت ال ای دی روشن میشه!

Good morning, these diodes can be 10mm?.🙃🥰

Aapane to battery dikhai nahin ki o kitane wat ka hai

Iska Buzzer Kaha Gaya Bhai

क्या हुआ भाई पहले buzzer लगाया बाद में buzzer निकाल के टेस्ट दिखा रहा हे ?

dear resister check karta haaa ??????

Where is buzzer

What is the supply voltage  ?

Why you remove the buzzer ??

Good morning, do you have any project to test resistors?.

Can we use 10k resistor in series to get 100k?

fazool circuit 5 rupay ka tester with Kanga shisha 😂😂😂 china chagia

Buzzer how many volt pls

Где звук

🤔

3.7v

you can use a buzzer. But 3v active buzzer. :yougotthis:

yes

use active buzzer. i don't have

3.7v

 @homemade_101  Thank you so much  !

it is not active buzzer it is passive buzzer. plz using active buzzer.

 @homemade_101 Thanks brother👍and I am your new subscriber

Not currently.

AntonioCarlos, resistor é o ultimo a dar problema. Se ele não suporta a corrente que passa por ele, a resistência dele vai aumentando até ele abrir. Mas quando isso ocorre, é visual, vc vai enxergar ele queimado literalmente. Compre um miltimetro, hoje é barato.

 @homemade_101  Thank you,brother ,i am brazilian .

10K x10 = 100K , series connect

👍

3V Active buzzer

it i not working

