Never seen or heard a 386 perform this well. Always excited to see people getting the most from cheap and readily available components.

I really appreciate how you explain what individual components do. I'm an absolute beginner and that really helps me.

Your channel deserve millions subscribers dude I'm impressed by your hard work for your viewers

After four years, this is still one of my favorite projects! I have just reworked the board files and ordered another round of boards. Thank you, John, for having shared this great little circuit!

This is absolutely the best video I have even seen on using the LM386 the best way possible. Thanks very much for posting this !

Great build. I like the cap on the grounded input to get better symmetrical clipping  - clever design.

Honestly impressive I've learned a lot watching this

This was my first amp I ever buillt back in the 1990's :)

Dude that's so nice I've never seen this performance of lm386 before

Back in 1990 while in college I had ordered a receiver and while waiting a couple weeks for it to be delivered, I built a dual LM386 amplifier and hooked it up to my Pioneer S-910 12-inch 3-way speakers.  It was surprisingly good-sounding, as long as it was kept at very modest volume levels... the only option here. 😁

thanks for a great vid, you filled in a couple of missing pieces of the puzzle for me.

After struggling to get good sound out of my LM386 I found this video. Nicely done and thank you! I'm a subscriber now.

It sounds so good. Fantastic work.

great video!  I built one for a small 4" 8ohm dayton speakers (1 amp per speaker) and love it!    I really appreciate you explaining the different cap options etc...and really appreciate you taking the time to do this...

I remember building LM386 amplifiers as a kid on radioshack breadboards, I drove moms pair of Pioneer CS-203/CS-303 speakers with it. It actually sounded fairly well, and had a bit of bass. Man, brings back memories! Thanks for the nostalgia trip. Then I moved on to TDA2003 amps, (which is fun to use in a solderless breadboard), and LM380, etc... Eventually wound up making a super tiny little LM3886 amp which was very powerful.

Hi John,  never seen the 386 perform so well!

I use these amps in my transceiver circuits.  Nice video and I will incorporate your tips in my builds.

I'm fairly new to all of this, and that little nugget about the perf board and graph paper was "Chefs Kiss!" you are a gentleman and a scholar sir! Also, I was looking at the LM386 on my suppliers website and the specs listed gave me the impression that it was less than ideal to use anything more than a 4ohm speaker. Thanks for setting me straight sir 🙏you have earned my sub and I'm excited to check out more of your content as I gear up for some DIY Synth projects!

My personal experience using a 100uF PSRR capacitor and bypassed gain is that I definitely get some benefit from adding a large power supply reservoir capacitor.
I like adding some bass boost feedback (10K in series with 33nF capacitor, described in the datasheet) from pin 5 to pin 1. Converted a thrift shop boombox into a gutsy little practice amp.

Thank you for the explanation behind this circuit!  Alot of channels just say put this together and it works.  Again thank you!

The LM386 is EOL'd by TI, perhaps will be by other manufacturers at some point, since class D chips are readily available for this power level.

 @MarkTillotson  - and there are numerous benefits of Class D for low power amps. The LM386 is so old, there's not really any reason to use such a device now days.

 @MarkTillotson  can you give link on Class D amplifier at this level please?
Building a 9v amp for sustainer kit for my guitar...
Instead of speakers, it outputs to a pickup-like 8 ohm driver installed at neck pickup position to vibrate the strings for sustain, then flip a phase reverse switch of the output for feedback or harmonic so neednto add pots for adjusting...
The input to amp is from the other pickup of guitar...
I burnt a Veyz sustainer kit at 10 volts, now using Amtech sustainer...

Agreed. Sounds pretty nice.

Same here.

have you ever connected this LM386 to the early "STEREO FM"  (SONY or PHILLIPS)? Oh boy.. that was fun..I added 1000MFD capacitor connected pin 1 to pin 8. Even better. What a nostalgic trip indeed....

You´re the best! I can´t believe you got that quality from that ¨thing¨

1 amp to rule  them all!

That music sample was frickin' fantastic !!!  WOW !!!  I have to try this build.  Great job and thanks so much for posting.

Great tip for perf. board and 0.1'' graph paper.

The tda7052 is a great chip that's similar to the LM386 but it is more stable, doesn't require the decoupling capacitor, and puts out more power on less voltage.

beautiful design and performance , speaker also counted for this

It sounds really good!

It worked perfectly, thank you!

How did you calculate the values of capacitor?

Nicely done!

Nice explanation of the LM386, thanks

Ive used the LM386 since the early 80's in mostly radio project but its also found itself in most every project Ive made that needed a small audio amp. Ive never given it much thought about making it run any better then the circuits in the data sheet. I would pull them out of old PC modems (US robotics) that where being scrapped years ago so I have quite a few in my parts bin.  Like others stated Ive never heard one sound as good as your circuit.

My desk sound system uses LM386 running on 5V driving a 4 Ohm speaker. It sounds sweet at moderate levels where it's only outputting 250mV or so.

wow! dude your a Pro for sure

Have watched your vids for some time and finally subscribed. Have time to experiment and play. Good vid and good explanation. Much appreciated. Thank you.

Beautiful. Thanks John.

Thanks for this video love it keep up the great information

I think that is the best design. Never heard an LM386 amplifier like this. 
I tried to make it many times but I never was able to make it sound clear like this.

For the gain regulation, I find you can get the widest span in amplification factor with a 10k pot, so your overall resistance will be 909 ohms when the pot is in maximum resistance. This will give you roughly 25 to 200 times amplification, instead of the 50 - 200 that you'd get with a 1k pot.

the sound was incredible for a few dollars worth of parts - best I have heard from a 386.

I read & followed Radio Shack book..then connected to the early "STEREO FM" gadget. It was fun back then..

Good n very detail...nice video

Your quit knowledgeable bud ty.

I think the LM386 is the only IC I've used where you can follow every guide, schematic, datasheet, or example, and STILL have it not sound right.

Thank you for your clear explanation of well designed release. Also for your teaching sharing of your study free of charge.
I will duplicate your circuit for my hobby s.w. radio.

Very nice video thanks!

Nice sound Lm386 👍🏻

This is EXCELLENT ! 
I am currently using a 386 amp to add power to my 1.5v powered alarm (piezo) to turn on a 1.5v relay. Thank u for doing this.

I've just built this amp on breadboard using your cap values, it sounds excellent, thanks! Stay away from Amazon and the cheap "lm386's" they have... they're fake. Sounded terrible when I was swapping them in and out. I used real Ti one's in the end.

Wow! Liked and subbed.

Thats the right way to Design a good running preamp, thank you for the Video! Your Video save my Time to Explain how to do it.These Old school Method is much more Precise than the CAD Way.Thank you, God bless you.
Now i Subscribe, because you are very clever.

Thanks very informative 👍

I just built this great little project! It's great! Now, I will be building a MP3 player.

Thanks!  Works great as a mic pre-amp for condenser/electet mic to line level input.  I added a 1kOhm resistor from 9V to mic-in to power the mic.  My mics have 900-1000 Ohm static impedance. Needed the optional 10 uF capacitor between pins 1 and 8 for gain. I only used 220 uF capacitor at the output.  On the breadboard, there was lots of noise pickup but on a compact circuit (one shown is good) it only picked up radio.  Probably could use a low-pass filter on it (I was getting good response up to 160 kHz and very slow falloff from there).  I found that encasing in a metal cage eliminated the interference so I'd done that and I use without a filter.

Great video as always, just watched this again, having made a couple of your lm386 circuits. These are so instructive and clear, thank you.
Just one query...was that music by a band I used to listen to called Gryphon?

Have built loads of LM386 amplifiers, usually for 🎸 practice amps. I didn't know about dumping - input via capacitor rather than a short to ground, much better. For guitar use, I often use a one stage BC549C preamp to get a bit more welly and use high pass filtering as the sub harmonics from a standard guitar has a lot of bass. LM386 withstands abuse, well. I use a 12 volt supply into 3 ohms. It's been working like that for years but isn't a good idea. Helpful upload, thank you.

Great video tnx❤

Breadboard done and sounds FANTASTIC !!!  I wound up connecting the 47pF ceramic between pins 3 and 4.  Now I'm going to build two circuits side-by-side for stereo.  I'm sure it'll sound even better built (if that's possible). Volume is perfect for my use as is, no need for any volume control other than my source,  the headphone jack on an old Sandisk Sansa I had laying in a drawer.  I'm powering it with a couple of 18650's and it's only drawing around 35 mA with the music I'm playing, Joni Mitchell.  This is my first amplifier, but now I'm hooked, and I'm sure it won't be my last.  THANK YOU, John !!

About 3 years ago i build my own circuit like this,with lm386 Chip,all on my own so it played very well therr wasnt like a pot on for volume but i used a aux cable through phone so it played very nice,also the cap that i use give more bass

I built 2 and the 3rd is coming up. The first is just precious and L/Mono. The second is "combined L/R/stereo to mono" and a very small box where I must re-design the space for a 5V supply chip and a battery (seems impossible right now.) The 3rd is a bigger box and will be stereo (2 x LM386) and I worry about destroying the box with making holes. The chips are rock solid. There is more to learn with music plugs in it for me, so that's the main idea. It solved a Raspberry Pi problem where I wanted sound from an alarm clock app. My electric guitar able to have speaker, amp and battery attached is also something. The guitar sound makes a nice distortion, so that was a win.

In the future, I consider some rails of electronics for effects to experiment with, but it's not my main thing as it this.

Great video - Thanks! Can you also do a video (or some) about balanced audio input/output drivers?

Make a video of that sweet amp, i wanna see.

 @analogaudiorules1724  I just followed John's excellent instructions exactly.

Hello! I have never built your circuit. However, the LM386 is famous for the following: ① The LM386 has an old and unique design, and omitting the 10KΩ to 5KΩ input volume on pin 3 will result in poor sound quality. ② The design balances the differential amplifier circuit by grounding this volume to -GND via 10KΩ to 5KΩ and grounding pin 2 to -GND. ③ Therefore, if the input volume is not needed, it is necessary to insert a fixed resistor of 10KΩ to 5KΩ between pin 3 and -GND instead. And so on (from Japan).

Thanks very much for sharing your expertise. Everything you said made good sense to me. One area where I’d very much appreciate your comments regards the choice of capacitor types; specifically why the one ceramic cap and why the two mylar caps? Thanks!

I need to Make one it's pretty easy when you think about it not a complex circuit

Ah I finally got this IC to work! so many poor circuit diagrams and instructions out there and no explanation of which part is filtering / doing what - thankyou!

Wish you had this as a kit to put together... With a pcb

Adding the 10uf capacitor across pins 2 and 7 quietens the sound a bit, but playing the audio through a azotom stereo speaker the sound is pretty good thanks

i used a 5v split supply and eliminated the output cap slightly adjusted the bias and got 3v into 8 ohms flat down to 10Hz

nice circuit

Perfect for a headphone amplifier of course 1/channel., I also like using it as a preamp, so it doesn't need a dual power supply, relatively simple

I like it!!!

I couldn’t catch how flat the response was below 100hz.

I tried to make this it buzzed a lot and exploded

Thank you so much for posting this! I have tried several of these circuits and come away disappointed. This one is promising for a project I am working on. I really appreciate your explanations. I am assuming uF for each that don't specfically say p for pF. Is that right?

Always recomend supply decoupling capacitor  approx 10uf near to the chip as possible.

Nice to see someone make a decent circuit on a prototyping pc board with the LM-386. So many knock this chip because they have no idea how to properly build the circuit in the schematic.  They think they can build a high gain circuit on a plug in proto bread board (what you call socket board) using hook up wire and have no clue about mutual induction between wires and stray inductance and capacitive coupling between all the busses on a "socket board".    LS Short, don't let any of the output signal get back into the input.
 To do that effectively you have to use twisted pair at the least, like you have here on the input and output and keep all leads as short as possible and  to get the most performance out of the chip, use SHIELDED audio cable on the input and output with the center lead as short as possible and connected to good ground. Build the circuit on a etched double sided PC board with the input and output separated by a large ground plane as the chip was intended to be put on by the designer of the chip, International Semiconductor.   
 Electronics Engineers like myself and knowledgeable techs like you can get away with a good circuit mounted on a proto board like we've both done with a few tricks.
 I have a two way intercom between my living room and outside privacy fence gate using the LM 386N-4 driven by a TL-082 OpAmp fed to a Radio Shack Mic that has been working since 2008.   I love this combo and I can pick up sounds from blocks away.
 I've thought about making a vid on how to properly build an audio amp with this chip for a long time.  It's amazing how loud and clean this little device will drive an 8 Ohm speaker and will fill a whole room with sound.

The frequency sweep shows a hint of crossover distortion appearing above about 10kHz, a combination of inadequate bias on the output (to give low quiescent current) and  starting to run out of open loop gain. As you mentioned, configuring these little amps for high gain makes performance worse in pretty much every respect and should be avoided for any application were reasonable audio quality is desired.

thank you very much. I updated by Archer engineer's mini notebook ref 279-5011 by Forrest M. Mims the 3rd I bought at Radioshack last century.

My first audio amplifier is using LA4440 12years ago.. Above half Volume and boom.. Too much noise and now i love TDA for low profile 2.1 Speaker setup

much better than my LM386. great !


may be i should redo mine.

Hello John as you know there are 3 different versions of the 386 each with different max output levels, which version are you using here ?

Very interesting what you say. It would be nice if you want and have the time to do it, to show how you do it in order to cover all the points you mention. I have problems with the smokey amp, and I am quite curious about what I am doing wrong to get that squeals and horrible noises, while the original ones do perform good or very good.

CaptainDangeax I have that book. Still wanna wanna build that diode cascade multiplier that goes on for days

Dont use the chinese diagrams to build it and you will have something worth using.

Good morning How do I install the 10k and 100k potentiometers? I don't know where to solder them. Please help me.

Nice

5:47 These damn LM386s made these days are real pains in the rear. The last circuit I made with them (Little Gem Mk II) required me to use a 10uf across Pins 1 & 8, and it had to be connected literally right at the pins or it would motorboat. When I used older chips (like 15 years old) I had no problem, but the newer ones are nothing but trouble.

pulcherrime!

it would be cool to see you build the circuit component by component if you ever get feeling to do that :)

Az első általam épített (2x)LM386-os erősítőm az egykor kiégett PC hangszóróim helyére készült el, 2009-ben. Azóta csak egyszer kellett végfok kondenzátorokat cserélnem benne, így azóta is rendben működik.
A második egy LM386-os monobox amit egy ételtartó dobozba építettem be, és 2011-óta működik, de ennél is a végfok kimenő kondi ment tönkre elsőnek. azóta is rendben működik.
Szerény véleményem szerint az LM386-ot az örökké valóságnak készítették.

What an amazing explanation! But why did you connect bypass capacitor at dc 9v?

Love it. Could you add a capacitor and a resistor pot between pin 1 and 8 for gain control? If so what would the best values be for both items?

Could you do a similar video for the TBA820? I haven't had any good luck using them in builds.

if you want more power or ability to use other loads you would have to graduate from the LM series to the TDA branded chips especially if you want a few watts in stereo unless you want to pile on LM chips on a PCB..

Nice content sir 🔥 any range value of that 0.27 caps ? Or its fix 0.27. Lil hard to get that value

its all about the ground plane with this IC.

Hello, John! Could you make a video of how to make preassembled lm386 module, that you may find cheap on Amazon or Ali, sound best?

It’s a shame that todays replacement (The Pam 8403 amp) cant be configured for headphone boosting as its a simpler amplifier with more output and at a cheaper price

Thanks for taking the time to explain the capacitor on the negative input of the LM386. I've seen it done before, but as a relative noob to electronics, it wasn't really clear why.

(Anybody that comments on here, with this knowledge, is welcome to answer my question)
John, I just found your youtube channel. Excellent video! That LM386 amp sounds clean with plenty of volume. 

I'm currently looking at building an FM radio using the RDA5807 FM Radio Tuner IC. I'm looking at a plan that I found on Instructables.
The amp being used, for that build, is a PAM8403 audio amp module. I'm wondering if the LM386 is a better choice for the amp
and also how do these two amps compare with each other?

Thanks!
Gary

Holy Moly wonder why they don't show that capacitor configuration in the datasheet? Maybe it's got potential for oscillation?

Hey John love you stuff
Should do a 3 lm386 chips in a bridge stereo circuit 
Can get 3 watt

Because of internal current limit, the amplifier would actually produce more power into a 16Ω load, than 8Ω with a 12 volt supply. I consider that to be an absolute maximum voltage, and would not use that much in an amplifier design. At 9 volts supply, it really is best at 8 Ohms. According to the graph, the amplifier output seems to current limit at 375 milliamps. If the amp would maintain this current limit with a 4 volt power supply, it would fully drive the 4Ω load.

Nice

Can I build one on breadboard?

Also where is volume control potentiometer?

Dave Smith - Could maybe be why

true

To short out the noise due to the internal 50k resistor - both Johnson noise and flicker noise(*),  and reflected current noise from the transistor base due to the 50k.
(*) integrated resistors are not metal film, not the best performing resistors.

3

A bridged amp uses two amps in anti-phase, why would you use three of them?

PAM 8xxx is really enough

Nope, at least not when loaded with 8 Ohms. As explained in the video @8:00 the amp can hardly provide any more current. The increased load would lead to a significant voltage drop at each output stage, only causing more distortion.

or use a proper TDA branded chip that can deliver that power in stereo..

ElfNet Designs what’s the fun in that?

brilliant video! How will this amplifier work on 150 ohm headphones?

The best results I've had with these LM386 designs were the ones using a FET as a buffer for the input -- the Ruby from runoffgroove mainly. I recall using a J201 to best effect, but apparently the through-hole package for those are out of official production now? I also liked a bigger output capacitor than most of the LM386 designs (they usually called for a 220uf), I think I usually went 470uf like you're using here, or 680uf, especially for guitar use. I remember finding a 10k volume pot to cut too much high end for HiFi audio, and a 50k audio taper working best for me there. I'm not an engineer though, I just made semi-blind substitutions. I remember socketing the transistors and the gain resistors to try different things. Thank for this design, it's simple and compact and if I get back into it I'll try it out for HiFi. But I still have a stereo buffered LM386 board I never bothered to put into a box and use yet, lol.

Hi John - Thank you for this helpful video. I am puzzled by one thing. You added a .27 cap from the inverting input to ground to balance the circuit. However you then add the 47p cap from the non-inverting input to ground. Doesn’t this unbalance things? - Jim

I just thought of something, can we use a 12v power rail + 16-ohms transformer on the output with an 8/4-ohms secondary to connect the speaker can that boost the output power / sound ???

Great explanation of this circuit,  I've a couple of those 386 chips and I've done this circuit similar to yours(minus a few caps), and I use it for my guitar. I got a tube driver adaptor that plugs direct to the guitar and then I put the 386 amp on after that, where I connected with the phono male and female then out to the speaker. Your guide has solved a bit of puzzle why I couldn't directly connect the 386 amp into the guitar and then to the speaker ie. it needs a load for it to work(I think). I've used a dimmer switch for a push on and off, and another switch for the 200 gain, with a pot to adjust the loudness and it's powered by a 9v battery and it lasts for ages. Thanks a lot for this and I subbed :)

I have a better idea 

use from 100nf to 470nf or 1uf capacitor connected from pin 1 to pin 8 instead of the 10uf gain capacitor
the result lm386 will give a very clear high frequency crystal sound without hum
to reduce the highs as you like use from 100ohm to 1k resistor connected in series with the capacitor or use a 1k trimmer to adjust the highs, i used 220ohm resistor

could I build that amp but add a buffer like the jat half bake amp ?

anything on NE5532?

John, 
Thank You Very Much for your videos.  I learn something new every time, and your discussion helps me a great deal on what to look for and things I should consider when I'm working with electronics.  Wishing You and Snickers the very best.

Can u make vid about guitar amp. How are they made which amps are better

Can you use a mic with this, say, with a parabolic reflector?

Hey John, Question if I can; Where is the high frequency filtered by the 470 cap coming from? could it be filter best on the input, or in the power rail? I ask because i think that, if removed (instead of filtered on the output) it would yield a cooler and more efficient chip.

Do you happen to have one of those cheap china tiny dc boost converters on hand? I wonder if there would be interference running it alongside using a 18650 as the power source as a portable amp.

anyone have there video building this incredible circuit for some like me who cant properly read a circuit thankyou i really want to make one

How would this circuit work if powered by 5v via a usb cord?

Hello John,

a few years ago I've built a tribute to the LM386 using your superb teachings.

https://hackaday.io/project/166669-lm386-stereo-audio-amplifier

After this first one the end result was better than i expected, no noise, excellent sound, low power consumption, no problems, so did a few more with other recycled audio chip's, also all other components are taken from scrap electronics.

Thank you for all your dedication and sharing.

On Pin 3 of other circuits, I see a 470pF rather then your 47pF.  Why?
I suggest LM386-4, since it's rated at 1Watt output!

posted 3 years ago ... thanks for the effort but I can't believe how someone put so much time and effort in the video but couldn't just make the schematic at least in paint , and provide the list in text format...

Unbelievable. I never thought LM386 sounds so great !

If I am not adding volume control , where can I connect the load resistor ? Before the input capacitor or after it & what should be the resistor value ?

so, you can amplify the signal before the ic amplifies it?

Hi Nick Sparks;
I would like to ask you something. As far as I am concerned you used the LM386 to make a guitar amplifier. Does this circuit usefull for a guitar amplifier ? If it is not is there any modifications that I can make on this circuit to make it usefull? I am looking forward to hear from you. Have a nice day.

Thanks for the kind comment!

first amp i built was with 2 lm380's 

wished i still had it lol, wasnt special, just my first...

I have seen in some amplifier circuits like lm386, tda2822, tba820 etc that the Input coupling capacitor is connected before the potentiometer (if a potentiometer is to be used) and if the input capacitor is connected after the potentiometer that's between the potentiometer wiper pin and the amp input pin, the amplifier starts oscillating when the power is switched on and even without any audio signal connected. What's the reason behind this ?

But in some audio chips like Tda2003, the Input capacitor is connected after the potentiometer (between the wiper pin and input of the amplifier). So what's the difference between the two connections ?

Could I build two of these and one on each input for stereo?

Could you not use that chip to drive the CV input on the second half of a NE556 which drives a high power Inverter output stage based on 2x BD131 transistors +1N4007 +560R resistor with feedback to the drive amp.

I just finished building this on in stereo config (shared ground). It sounds good and clear, however, there is a sibilance issue. Are there components that I should change or add to solve it?

18:55 The harmonics you see at clipping are the reason why you blow your tweeter during clipping. 
This is why "underpowering" is a common cause of breaking your speakers.

how feasible is using a 50k pointomiter in series with the gain adjust cap? i'm thinking of the guitar amp, "little gem" type thing using the pot to control gain

Can u use this to make guitar amp?

Thank you for the explanations, dear John, but I got a doubt: near 17:00min. you change something until the wave get round, not clipped. I'm too amateur to have an ocilloscope.And as I'm lookin for a good - not excessive but not poor - gain for a diy reusing of a pair of very small laptop speakers (but yet a 8ohm speakers), I'd like to know how to get a decent gain.

Are you using that 10uF capacitor between pins 1 and 8? If so, which resistance is used to get no distortion?

 I'd like you to excuse me if you said that in the video but I'm not too fluent listener in English. Well... actualy, as you can see, not a fluent writer-speaker too.

Thank you.

John, in your opinion, would a  tda2822m bridge would make a good mini guitar amp? i don't have many LM386 if any,  but I do have many many many... tda2822m

I'd like to use this amp, but I want to add a volume control, a reverb circuit and an overdrive circuit to control them with pots as well.
Can you direct me to site where I can learn that?
Thanks 👍

Hey buddy could i use a .22uf polypropylene film cap in place of the .27 polyester cap thanks

Hmmm boost pedal for guitar?

I have an LM386  amplifier board, actually two of them. What mods can I make without desoldering the boards: 8 Ohm speakers, power supply capacitor, reduce gain, what else?

this is insanely informative! do you have a class you teach on this?

Possible to combine with 1 transistor output type amp?

What changes when the output is headphones? I'm thinking guitar practice amp.

so are the caps that do not list units all in uF? -> oh, I see at 11:40 that the answer is yes... I also see that the resistor is 10 Ohms

can't you just use a input transformer secondary conected to input+ and input -

Great vid, but you didn't mention the 10uF cap from pin 7 to ground.

Ha! Me too!
 The LM380 was a bit of a blunderbuss, but hey...


 The one I MISS was my OTHER little project the headphone amp - I just used 741's! I thought it was SO neat, lol - if only I'd known lol (Hi Z stereo phones, so I got away with it - imagine the distortion, but it didnt actually sound so bad)

The chip is still available on the internet.  I was thinking of putting together the lm380 amp just to keep it "alive".  If it ain't broke don't fix it!😂

Yes you can.

 H A R  Yes it can. When the amplifier starts clipping you get tons of harmonics and those harmonics are unexpected HF that can stress your tweeter and damage it (probably the main reason of tweeter failure).
See : https://jblpro.com/en-asia/site_elements/danger-low-power
This can happen if you clip any stage of the audio signal.

No. YouTube is all I do.

is for stabilization.

would there be any benefits to  using a 16 ohm speaker

At 6:30 you discuss an output coupling capacitor of 470 “ohms”. Expecting to see something like 470 uf. Is that correct?

I have just built this, I have bought a 8.2 ohm non inductive 20w resistor.
How do you get your test signal?
I have a signal generator dds  still clipping with 100mv 1khz sine  wave going in? ( can’t get a smaller signal)

Can I use it as a clean boost?

I already got a practice amp but it doesn't have a lot of gain.

sir what is 1KHz normalising while measuring audio amplifiers.thank u

Lm386 N-1 has 325 mw @ 6V 8 ohm, N-3 has 700 mw @ 9V 8 ohms and N-4 has 1Watts @ 15V 16 ohms according to datasheet. So which of these flavors we are actually getting now in the open market as there is nothing printed after Lm386 on the chips ?

One question, can i use this for headphones ? With auto headphone detection ?

Hi John I have a vintage Fidelity HF19 1961 tube amp in a record player. I want to change the mono high output ceramic cartridge for a modern stereo pickup so it won't damage my records. Do you think this little amp would be ok as a preamp to power the single UL84 tube amplifier?

Regards from Ukraine) Could You please tell me if there is any solution with my situation. I am making portable 8 bit game console. I use NES clone with onboard opamplifer, and its output distorted sound. Its sounds not good on TVset but acsepteble. But when I try it with PAM module or this LM386 schematic amplifer and small dynamics its sounds terreble. I find it at the wery late stage - I doned so much work with case and other parts of project. The internal opamplifer do not have any outer components to change, all in one chip. Is audio signal can be filtered, can You help me with advice?

What are high impedance sources?

Wonderful video about a much-distorted subject. However, the jiggling pencil is extremely distracting. But thanks anyway.

What song was that?

is the capacitor marked 470, in  picofarads?

6:25 A 470 ohm cap!?!  :)

I can't wait to build this. I was planning on using it as a small guitar amp. In regards to the pin 1 and 8 gain stage could I use 1k pot in series with the 10mf cap to adjust the gain? And if so, what order should I have the components?

Ill try this next time im goofing around with some chip amps. i designed a PCB a while back from this design which was also labeled as "LM386's the right way".
ill probably update my PCB to your design as i can hear it


https://hackaday.com/2016/12/07/you-can-have-my-lm386s-when-you-pry-them-from-my-cold-dead-hands/

Great video! I see you’re using film capacitors. Is there a reason I shouldn’t use ceramic caps? I’m asking as a beginner. :)

I used to make headphone boosters with them. The only difference from your circuit was instead of a 470uf decoupling capacitor, I used 2,200uf for a better bass response. Also seemed to drive into 16 ohm loads better. Ran alright off a 9 volt battery with two lm386 chips

Can I run this off of 12v?

Ever since I tried this little amp when I got it from Radio Shack in  1986 it was such a disappointment I never tried it again.  Your circuit surprised me!

I heard that to

Better use 10k

Ceramic capacitors are notorious for they lack of stability, they also shift capacitance with vibration.
That's why you avoid using them in anything here value stability is more important that lower ESR.

If you don't setup the grounding very well, it will distort badly or even oscillate. It can sound good properly configured.

 @JohnAudioTech  Do one on the venerable tough as nails Sanyo STK086

I'm having a good time with this little chip ^^

I used it to make my practice little guitar amp and I'm trying to improve the circuit, hence why I'm here :)

For guitar amps the distortion the chip can produce is VERY nice, it's almost a fuzz type of distortion and it's very simple to do.

However I can not get clean tones from the amp, for clean tones they are pretty bad, at least for guitars :(

 @CalebePriester   For clean tones you can have a look at the post apocalyptic tin can amp. I made it, and without thinking too much about layouts, twisting wires, and all this stuff, and it sounds clean to me. I do not know the reason, but it sounds fine. If you have not seen that video, search it on YouTube...

Me too, never had a good experience with LM386.

I built it with SMD components on double sided PCB and it's small. Works great! Question - can I put a capacitor with 10kOhm pot in series between pin 1 and 8 to control gain?

Can we use LM386 or LM358 as preamps ??

"NICHICON?" you appear to be using regular electrolytic capacitors. it appears somebody has made a better one called nichicon. it is more expensive! could i replace your regular one with this. the tin can capacitor not the film which are called "bubble drops?"

How good/bad will it work with a pair of headphones?

Nice video. Thanks for sharing. Which speakers are you using? 8 ohms, but how many watts and ways? It seems 2 or 3 ways, and they seem powerful. Speakers are also important for the final result as you mention in the video.

I used to make these as headphone booster amps for Walkmans. But I found the bass response was better if i used 2200uf decoupling capacitors on the output. Got bloody loud with some JVC over the ear headphones. They were rated nearly a watt of input power !

to bad audio transformers are hard to come by. then it be easy to drive four ohm load.

I don't understand the capacitors

Hi John, love your videos. Are there any books with instruction similar to yours here that you’ve used in learning?

For your next trick. make a LM386 based 70 volt amplifier XD

Excellent! So many LM386 (and other IC amp) projects misuse them. You not only talked about why, but showed what happens.


Another thing to consider is that a volume pot on the input side should have a cap between the wiper arm and the amplifier input, because bias currents through a wiper arm can cause extra noise.

A perfect one needs an input op amp and a common negative feedback loop. Then you'll see 0.001% THD instead of 1.4%

John, I would be glad to share my KiCad files. However, YT will not let viewers post links (or even talk about them,) unless the channel's author grants the viewer some sort of "trusted viewer status." If you can arrange that, I'll set up the link. Let me know what you would like for me to do. Thanks.

Hey, Could you give me some feedback on this circuit 
https://imgur.com/vySepZm
I want to know if i got the Resistor/Capacitor  's values right. Microphone is an electret microphone with magnet speaker. Single-suppy LM324, 9V.

Hi, John. I thought it might be rewarding for you to see your project built by others. I made a tiny, SMD board and had it manufactured, to play with the design. I don’t use DropBox, much, so I hope it works... https://www.dropbox.com/sh/6dfkydg0q80y6sa/AACFIeph0lK8ZrKxgY0aLhEGa?dl=0

Dollar Bill Photo: The boards are only the size of your thumb. The LM386 is not in its socket and the 9v barrel jack is not installed, yet, but you can get an idea of the scale of things. They are installed in the video. I saved a lot of space, by piggybacking the smoothing cap on the back of the unit. The huge, solid-core input and output wires are just for fooling around.

KiCad PCB Photo: Shows the compact layout.

Video: Shows it working.

Thanks for the education and the inspiration!

The input is a differential pair so having both inputs capacitive coupled is great, but the 47pF capacitor should be on the same side of the coupling capacitors. As you show it, it is inside the + terminals coupling capacitor and outside the - coupling capacitor. It's not obvious why you would want to unbalance your input this way...

This worked amzing! I have built many mini amplifiers using the lm386 and none of them have even come close to the pure disturbance free audio, this circuit and layout gave me.

What configuration was this 386, 1,2,3 or 4, 4 having 1 watt output. I agree with the others, your circuit is quite, clean and full fidelity. A better design than others I have tried. Good job! Thanxz

Hi, John. Please tell me what type of capacitor you actually used for the 47pF input cap, across the LM386's two input pins, pins 2 and 3. I watched the video, again, to catch this detail. I thought that you had commented on it, but, if so, I did not catch it, this time. Around 14+ minutes, there is a quick glimpse of the component. It sort of looks like a yellow ceramic, but I am just not sure. 

Teachable Moment = In addition to telling me what you actually used, please comment on what would be the best type of cap to use for this application and why so. Also, what might be substituted, in a pinch... Such as, maybe what appears to be a common ceramic is actually a Tantalum?

This is very much the audio signal, so I was expecting some type of a film cap. I checked at Mouser on 47pF film caps and they only seem to be available in really high voltages. I have a nice 47pF/1KVDC-250VAC/Polypropylene/AC and Pulse Film cap on hand. And, I that you taught me that, if the cap voltage rating greatly exceeds the signals voltage, the cap will not form up correctly and the rated capacitance will not be achieved? Thanks, again... I have learned so much from you!

Hello John, from about 19:40 to 19:50, what is happening around the zero crossing? There's a bulge on the sine wave :)

i have always wanted to try that, pity no answer yet

it will work fine and you dont need that capacitor at pin 1 and 8

I have connected the one 8ohm two way speaker. SPL would rate in the low 90dB range at 1watt / 1 meter.

Thanks for watching! Here is a link to a list of books and websites you might like.  Let me know if you can't access... https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I9UXd0ExMM4MtVVg3jcYHUOOhUPMKknE

 @JohnAudioTech  what an incredible list! Thanks you so much for sharing!! :-) I’ll look forward to tracking these down. All the best.

not hard really, its just a case of attaching a 8ohm-70volt matching output transformer. but with the low output power of a LM386, it wont be the best performer

 @DanafoxyVixen  Or a big resistor and zener diode lol.

Nice work! Thanks for sharing.

@ats89117

it is connected to ground not - input :-)

 @YTANDY100  It is connected from the positive input of the opamp to ground. It should be connected from the positive input of the opamp to the negative input of the opamp, or across IN. Both of those are balanced configurations. As shown, it is NOT balanced. That is pretty strange given that John correctly added the 0.27uF capacitor between the negative input of the opamp and ground to maintain a balanced input...

The .27uf caps would essentially be a short to the frequencies the 47pf cap would see as high impedance so you can consider that when placing it in the circuit.

 @JohnAudioTech  At many very high frequencies that might cause oscillations, the 0.27uF capacitor will be past resonance and may have a higher impedance than the 47pf capacitor...  But I concede this is a minor detail. Thanks for the great video!

Such a small cap (47pF) has negligible effect on audio frequencies so it doesn't create any discernible imbalance at audio frequencies. Very small caps like this are really only useful for filtering out RF interference ( > 100kHz) from radio and TV stations and cell phones etc. To get the best possible RF filtering performance the cap needs to go as directly as possible to the ground of the amplifier.

This is the N-1 version. I have the N-4, but testing at the same supply voltage gave the exact same output. The N-4 allows for higher voltages (18v max, I think), so with a 16 ohm load you can get more power.

 @JohnAudioTech  Have you tried the N-4? I found it didn't perform as well when swapped out of the working N-3 circuit I made. N-4 with 12v 8 ohm seemed to clip a little earlier and had fuzzy little oscillations on the test sinewave before clipping, may have been at the bottoms of the waveform but can't remember now. I guess it's probably got beefed up internal transistors for higher voltage which causes this? It went away with 16v 32 ohm.

The capacitor is a NPO ceramic type. It is a low pass filter to help keep RF out of the amplifier. Ceramic is fine for this duty. Value can be changed depending on needs.

 @JohnAudioTech  "NPO" = I haven't heard that one. Common ceramic - DIP, gum drop, etc. I know of these. I take it that a common ceramic will do. Thanks for the reply and the information. Cheers!

I'll have to check that. It seems to be on the falling edge only.

 @JohnAudioTech  Use an analog scope for this purpose. These sh... digital scopes are not good for this measurement

 @JohnAudioTech  CAN A  LM386 BE USED IN AN  FM ( BUG ) TRANSMITTER ?

Ive had so many problems with this chip, sometimes i plug it in, it sounds clean and produces fair volume, and then in less than a minute without changing anything all of a sudden it has extreme distortion and low output.
Must be because im doing it on a breadboard.

I'd want you to analyze and try one thing as well. I found this site:
https://hackaday.com/2016/12/07/you-can-have-my-lm386s-when-you-pry-them-from-my-cold-dead-hands/

That says to use the inverting input for the audio input instead of the non-inverting, saying "We’ve also noticed, and we’re not alone, that the inverting input seems to be less noisy than the non-inverting. See how the datasheet applications ground the inverting input (pin 2) and put the signal into pin 3? Do exactly the opposite and you’ll reduce your noise floor even further."

Would and could you then also connect the non-inverting input to the ground with the capacitor as you did in your video and would it improve anything then?

And maybe try out bridging the LM386 as well. I've found couple of schematics that promise 2W in bridge configuration.
https://www.eleccircuit.com/lm386-amplifier-stereo-2-watts/

Looking forward for your response as I am currently in the middle of building a lm386 stereo amp as my main computer speaker system.

I chose to do this because it makes it simpler for me, not to always click and setup everything on my music centre.
The Sanyo music centre tends to be quite muddy sounding compared to lm386 that sounds the best to my ears compared to all my cheap factory amps
I have actual computer speakers from 90's that are great but clumsy shaped and sound muddy and have a huge wall wart PSU
I have a pioneer car stereo that sounds great but doesn't remember the settings with the 12V PSU removed and is too digital and bothersome to set up every time
I will learn a bunch from building my own simple amp and I can always tinker with it
It's so cheap :D 5 chips from aliexpress for under a dollar.

I installed a line in Aux port in my car by tapping into the CD changer L/R lines. It works but I need to increase the volume a lot more to achieve the same volume of a cd, would something like this inline work for that issue?

Anyone know what the resistor and capacitor from output pin 5 to ground do? Is it something to eliminate noise?

Are lm3886 and lm386 the same ? If not what is the difference?

love your channel and have 2 separate lm386 amps built, how do i properly connect them together with a POT to make stereo lm386 with 2 ic's and one power source ?

what do you think? if someone was crazy enough to use lm368 as a transistor driver like tda2040  would that be even able to work in that configuration? How bad would be the distortion if you use single power suply and separate stages with big caps?

If possible in the next video please show us some low voltage mic amplifiers circuits.

Thank you for the video and the tips.  Does it make any difference in audio output quality what material is used for the .27 chip capacitors?

the 470 output component is a capacitor but you called it out in ohms.  That makes it unclear what value you want it to have 470uF, 470pf?

When you show the board layout, I am not sure of the orientation and did not follow your explanation.  Am I looking at the solder wire side looking down at the drawing?  I want to build this amp.  My transceiver has low output and want to put in a low gain amp.

I'm using a LM386 module with a FM reciver module. If I use the same power supply 12v directly for LM386 and 3V via a step down converter the volume is low and sound is distorted. If I use separate power supplies - 3v battery for FM and 12v for amp everything works ok. What could be the issue ?

Am I right in thinking, even though this chip is very low power output,, it has a really good frequency response? Because, I was always under the impression that that the usual 8 pin, or even 16 pin amp chips were seriously lacking in FR.

What are the requisites for making guitar amplifier ? Is it high input impedance or higher gain or both ?

Would this circuit be okay to use with a 4ohm speaker?

Would a 7.2 volts battery work instead of a 9 volt battery?

WHAT???? .....why not use the -ve for feedback?????

Power supply requirements, would a 9v 500mA suffice?

why the 274 cap  is only connect to the chip vcc pin , not between the 9v psu and chip vcc pin ?

On the output pin 5 you have a resistor and capacitor to ground.  What is the purpose of that?

Yeah they CAN be a bit unstable - you DID use the little RC output network, right ?

That is the problem, the breadboard should only be used to butter toast.

Yes, it will work however ; an lm386 is designed for power amplification to drive a speaker, your best bet for a line level low load application is a conventional op amp like a TL071 or LM741 :) make a resistor configuration to set up your gain, google opamp negative feedback
hope it helps, mylo

High freq from the amplification

HUGE difference. LM386, in this video. LM3886, little over 60W, bigger package

Different numbers, different parts - pretty logical.

You'll need a ganged pot, which is two pots on one shaft.

oh, that is simple. thanks John! @JohnAudioTech 

 @JohnAudioTech  A DUAL GANG LOG POT

I have made a video on using the LM386 as a driver for an transistor output stage.

i also would like to see that using electrets and dynamic

I would recommend using polyester film type caps.

 @JohnAudioTech  Thank you very much for the reply.

I misspoke, it is 470uf.

If if was pF you'd hear nothing, if it was nF only the high frequencies, so it must be µF or greater, mF would be unnecessary.

Thanks, but I have received an answer from the author.   He clarified it without even a small hint of condescending tone.  I like that.

The drawing shows the component side.

Could be a ground loop issue or noise from the converter (if it's switch mode). Hard to tell not having the circuit in front of me.

Frequency response depends mainly on the coupling capacitors used on the input and output (and feedback in some cases). The chip itself will have a response from DC to several tens of kilo Hertz.

JohnAudioTech ,, oh cool,, thank you.

It does a good job as long as you are staying under a half a watt, at that point the frequency response really goes tits up. It has a niche driving transistors in audio circuits, where you need more current than highly accurate op amps, but not so much the 386 needs more than a half a watt. They are also good enough for driving headphones.

Mainly high impedance as compared to line level audio.

Warch the video. He answers that.

read the datasheet

Yes

Doing that would block the DC current. The cap must be connected between Vcc and ground.

It helps to stabilize the amplifier. It is called a Boucherot cell.

JohnAudioTech cool, thanks. :)

I just don't understand why people still use these, when there's other cheap products out there. 
For example TDA7266 - mono 7w , 3v..18v, through hole, easy to heatsink...  datasheet has example circuit and even circuit board layout and everything. 
Or TDA7496 2 x 5.5w, 10v..32v .. with standby/mute and volume control using a plain potentiometer... a bit over 2$
LM1875...  the classic 5pin TO-220 part (if I remember it's equivalent with TDA2030A) which can do up to 25w mono, with +/-8v.. +/-25v or 16v..50v single supply... it's 3$ each from TI (Asian clones of the chip are 0.3-0.4$ on LCSC) . Again, the datasheet has loads of explanations and even circuit board picture with components and everything. If the LM1875 datasheet is no good enough, you can jump to the TDA2030 datasheet and get even more info.

Does the 47pf cap go to pin 3. it does on the schematic but not on the layout,

Hi John. Hope you can reply to this in time, my question is = you seem to gauge your power output from amplifiers by multiplying the voltage by itself and then dividing by the load in ohms,, for years I have been using a volt metre and a clamp metre with a scope and dummy loads to measure power in watts, so say 50v x 10 amps = 500 watts etc,, I have noticed that although both ways of obtaining watts through both methods works there is a big discrepancy between them with the given results,,,  can you shed any light on this??  Thanks

Hey John, I find that the .27 cap from signal in somehow reduces the bass almost entirely. I find that the output is a lot better removing it. What's your logic for that one?

Can I use a tube rectifier as power supply instead of a battery?

Can you use the 700mw lm 386n-4 instead of the lower power one used here?

Are your speakers 8 ohms?

im a guitar player and new to electronics hobby . i was thinking would it work if i took my favorite sounding guitar pedal attach it to the input of this circuit and make that all one small 9volt guitar amp? would i need a buffer in between  my FX pedal and this amp circuit? i was thinking of using a Marshal Guvnor circuit into this and use the Guvnor to control the tone and gain of the  amp. thank you for any feed back on this topic. i would want the amp to be completely clean and get all my gain from the guvnor circuit should i keep that 10uf between pin 1 and 8 out?

How does this amp sound compared to this? https://www.circuitbasics.com/build-a-great-sounding-audio-amplifier-with-bass-boost-from-the-lm386/
I see he's using a bigger output capacitor and some different values elsewhere. Think it'd make much difference? And that 470pF capacitor between pins 2 and 4 too. Hmm.
I'm probably going to play with both :)

Hmm.. how is that possible that I have a better sound from simple FET + Mosfet circuit than with lm386 (AliExpress) ?

Should the LM386 run hot?

pls test tpa3118 mono

For a guitar amp, why use 100k instead of 10k? In a different video you suggested that the pot should be <50% of the input impedance of the amp. 50% of 50k ohms is 25k ohms.

Can you duplicate this amp in a second stage to increase power? As in two amps in series, to increase gain?

No bass boost?

"How is it called when the original design overlay the real input/output?!" 🗨🙄🎣🧤⚡🌈

sorry for the stupid beginner question, but why is it ok to use a polarized electrolytic capacitor to remove dc offset? won't the waveform be the opposite voltage for half of the waveform?

Try rather the phillips TDA7052. No external components required, 1 watt output.

6:26 uF not ohm...   its a 470uf

No matter what religion you are you have sinned, you have messed up in life. The Bible says all who sin have fallen short of the glory of God. 
     "for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,"
Romans 3:23 ESV
     So in all honesty each and every person deserves to go to hell because we sinned against God. So then it is your own self that sends you to hell not God. God desires that every person be with Him in heaven. Although you might say, or think that if you are a good enough person God will just let you in. But this is flawed reasoning, seeing as how you have sinned against a perfect God, who's standard is perfection. Therefore someone must take your punishment. Thus no matter the amount of work, we are saved through grace and faith alone. 
     "For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast."
Ephesians 2:8‭-‬9 ESV
     This grace that the Bible mentions is free for anyone who wants it. All you need to believe is that Jesus Christ was sent by God into human flesh and lived a perfect life and died on the cross for our sins and rose on the third day. No strings attached no work is required to get into heaven although true faith will produce works out of thanks. Jesus Loves you He is alive today. This may be your last chance to accept Him. Please while it is not to late.

Simple answer is that many of us still have lm386's from radio shack days.

It can go to either side of the input cap. It was easier to layout the way I placed it.

 @JohnAudioTech  thanks. will do the same when i build it.

In theory, either way should get the same results. There would have to be some deficiency in your measurement methods which causes the discrepancy.

 @JohnAudioTech  thanks, I will continue my mission and pay close attention,  keep up the good work

Do you have a potentiometer or resistor following the capacitor? .27uf cap with the 50k input impedance of the LM386 should give good response down to 20Hz.

 @JohnAudioTech  Oh, that could be it! I just take in the raw input as is. Thanks!

why would you use tubes

You can use the n-4 with higher supply voltages to get more power, but you're stuck using 16 Ohm loads. The different versions have the same output power at any given supply voltage, so if you use the n-4 at 9v, it will have the same output power as the n-1 (8 ohms).

 @JohnAudioTech  so using 8 ohms at 9 volts for that chip would damage it? Or would it give me a bit more power at 9 Volts than the 350 mw -1 version?

yes

I say try it to see how it works. I'm not familiar with those devices as I'm not a musician. Use a proper guitar speaker in a cabinet to get good volume and sound.

 @JohnAudioTech   i decided to put my other projects on hold and just do this one real quick . i just got done testing this on my bread board and it sounds really nice through 2x10 speaker. i had to add a volume on the input of the amp after my Guv'nor circuit, the Guvnor was over loading the Lm386 a bit and turning it down a bit  before the amp made it work really well as a guitar amp. thank you for sharing your amp circuit im really happy with how it sounds on its own, the Guvnor makes it sound more like a Marshall guitar amp. i might add some reverb and put it all in a box with a 1x12 speaker.

 @JohnAudioTech  i will give it a try and report back here and let ya know how it turned out maybe a couple days . i enjoyed your video breaking this circuit down . i have the LM386N-1 as well as the N-4 ill try both .

Also if I do this on a PCB can all of the grounds go to the same ground plane? I see some amps where grounds are kept separated and I don't know what this does to the signal vs keeping it all together.

Because the AliExpress '386's are fake. I tried Ali, ebay and amazon. ALL FAKE. Some sort of mystery op-amp re-etched with LM386 on them. I bought 2 Texas Instrument ones from Digikey and they sound fantastic.

You are right! I have stopped buying components from Ali,Amazon,Ebay etc., because you never know whay you get and after one shop sold me fake l293 wchid don't work properly and I didn't return them because I didn't want to argue with thr seller for a few dollars + petrol to get to the shop. So I decided never again!! I make a bigger orders now, for example 2 times a year at Mouser or Farnell, only original components now. China pease... me off and the sh..what they sell. Never again wasting my time wondering why something not working etc.

read the datasheet    it was designed for low-Fi use

It depends on the supply voltage and load. At, say, 9v and an 8 ohm speaker, it will get warm when playing music. It should not be hot.

 @JohnAudioTech  Thanks John, i'll check my wiring.

Guitar pickups require high impedance loads or they can sound weak and treble.

 @JohnAudioTech  
I suppose the use of a JFET buffer on many common 386 based guitar amps is intended to mitigate this problem. Thanks for your time and channel.

Bass boost from the datasheet isn't really a boost per say, it just cuts the higher frequencies off.

If you're talking about the capacitor that couples to the output to the speaker, the current changes direction but it is because the capacitor is charging on the top half of the waveform and discharging on the lower half.

Can I use 4v battery?

Oh, as an aside, I have been learning that I need to be using film caps, not ceramics, for audio applications. I think I learned that from another one of your videos, or maybe it was in the comments.

Hello buddy. Iam trying to build an amplifier using TDA7265 amplifier chip with single supply design. The music is playing but don't know why the volume is so low. I have put input volume on full. For the circuit diagram, you can check the datasheet. Iam using fig 2, single supply design.

I thought 386 was a processor ?

read the damn datasheet

