Very helpful! I needed this yesterday, the newer menus save lots of time.

very helpful 👌

Thank you so much bro. It was very useful video. Make some more like this ❤

VERY HELPFULL TUTORIAL FOR BETAFLIGHT VERSION NOWADAY, SOME PEOPLE WERE USED OLD VERSION AND DONT HAVE THESE SETTING, ITS NEW FOR SOME PEOPLE, BIG THANKS

thank you for this helpful video....

Great video, really helped me to configure the motors on my first build! Thanks!

Thank you so much!!

Wow this helps a Lot. Thank you Man flysafe!

Gosh Richard i could sure use your help on this???

excellent video...

Thanks for this. Very clearly demonstrated and with understandable English. Like and Sub!!!

Top 🔝

Great video, thanks for sharing! 
I have a question on setting up the motor. Should the FC be facing towards us to get the correct configuration? For example, if I have a tinywhoop, let's say the Pavo Pico, where the FC is facing to the ground compared to you example where the fc is facing to the air . Should we view the FC from the drone's underside and then orient ourselves from there to establish the motor's order and orientation?
Looking forward to your insights!

I fly motors out, after flashing bluejay and setting my motors in the right direction, i did not click motors reversed in betaflight. My quad would jump in the air and cutoff and land flat. After checking my quad against one of my old builds i seen motors reveresed wasnt selected. I had to save it and tried again and my new boo flew great.

Very well done. Informative,  organized, and layman terms! Quick question,  I messed  with my meteor75 pro,  because I was getting real bad yaw yank, propeller wash, and now I don't know exactly what I did...; but now it hops about an inch of the ground and turns a little. Lol, sound familiar  at all? And, i thought you would have to go into Bl Heli ...?

Hi, I lost my binding plug to my FS-i6 controller. Now, I can’t bind any receivers to the transmitter. Could you please help me. Thank you.

What if my motors are mounted under the frame like on a cinewhoop?

How to control motor direction  with arduino esc?

my 1 and 4 motor is not changing directions

why dont i have that option in betaflight

Thanks for the sub!

Thanks for the instructions! Please help, I have two motors that spin in the wrong direction, I tried changing the direction in the section Spin Direction, but they do not change direction and always spin in the same direction. What could be the reason? Thanks in advance!

Hello, I have a problem with the moment I give gas with the console, the engines automatically go faster and when I suddenly give gas, the two rear engines push harder.

Hi Richard im having this problem with motors 1 and 2 turning in the wrong direction but my bf 10.9.0 does not show "Reorder motors". I can only change the direction up top of the quad motor diagram. I know nothing about CLI. And my firmware is 4.2.3 Eachine Lal3 4s quad. Can you help me?

My elrs  receiver shows a solid light, indicating it’s bound  but motors don’t spin up    Beta flight shows stick motion
What am I missing?

Hi Adam qhen i hook up to Betaflight and go to the motors tab to change tbe Motor Direction none of the motors turn when i press 1,2, 3 or 4.Also they dont turn when I am in the 4 large circles that changes from yellow to green. My motors are all turning in the wring directionand i wanted to use tgeabove method instead of Blheli chrome App which again i dont know how to use. Im a newbie these methods so yoyr help would be greatly appreciated.

I am new to the whole fpv world but I've been in drones for a while I ended up buying up somebody's collection for a good deal can I have four 225 mm friends without flight controllers they all have motors on them has four ESC on each motor and I just got the Speedy beef at 4:05 stack in the mail to build it. Do I eliminate the escs? Don't the Speedy bee have its built-in esc's? Thanks

I clicked on motor direction on bf, it told me in a warning box that i need to update my firmware to 4.3.Do i simply click on the yellow button that says "Update Firmware"? And will that show me the circles i see on your video? Also can i damage  my flight controller by clicking on update firmware?
Thank you for your time im banging my head on the wall with this one!😢

why does my betaflight doesn't have the reorder motors 
feature?

Even by touching I cannot figure out which direction my motors are turning. Its on a 2s copter, so they are pretty small. Atm my drone does not go up if I hit throttle, so motor directions might still be off. Any hints?

I did all this but I have the arming failure " motor protocol"

Swap 2motor wires

I don't know, but it probably will eventually.

Hey! You can wrap a little piece of tape around the motor shaft to make it easier to see which way it's spinning.

Is the message showing up in beta flight or on your goggle OSD? I'm not familiar with that particular failure message.

