T-motor F7 Stack: http://bit.ly/327NdPW

This. Was. Awesome.  Thank you so much.  I was struggling with my first build, but this video helped me not just get it done but actually UNDeRSTAND!  You are a champion

Just purchased this for a 5.5 setup. very excited!

Great video, really helped with my first build, thank you

Awesome review man, subbed.  Thanks for going into detail with the wiring, You did a great job explaining how everything goes together, your vid helped me a lot!

thank you so much for this had no idea why i couldn't get my vtx to output! haha now i know need to solder that jumper pad on bottom for always on / pit mode was sure what that one was for.

That exactly looks like my Spedix 4in1 esc! That flight controller is beautiful! It comes with tons of other parts too which is awesome! The print on the pcb is great! It can easily be read unlike the HyperLite F4 OSD I bought before.

Thank you so much dude. I was pulling my hair out trying to figure out why my vtx wasn’t getting power. The manual sucks lol.

This was the wrong FC choice for my first build lol

Show set up and flight bro. I like it

Good combo if not the best. You should  make a vid about how to setup pitmode ;)

A step by step would be great for a beginner like me. I’ve got the gear, I just don’t know where to start on this

Fantastic review, Sam!!! 😃
The stack looks awesome! And if it's T-Motor... Right? 😃

Hey man, as always great video ;D Can you test GepRC stack or esc alone? geprc g50a, those boards look so clean ;D

Crazy price tag for the FC

good men

Diatone has plate too

Not big on 4 in 1 escs .. but that stack looks very tempting 👍

I have the ESC connected to the Mamba F722 Flight Controller. Amp reading is 86amps on the bench... Hum...🤔

Mine are coming lite 7inch build

ahhh 13:00 so crucial! lol

Drone Mesh not sure whea to start

Is  iNavFlight-inav install-able on it?

I just built my first 5in with the 45a V2 version 2 weeks ago. Absolutely floored with the quality. I updated to BF 4.1 and haven't had to touch nothing since setup. It has proven tough peaking at 54 amps several times with the Xing Camo 2306 2450kv. Being a newer pilot, it has survived some rough crashes. Highly recommend it. Worth the money.

what is the benefit if i don't use the stock capacitor? because i'll change the  stock capacitor with rubycon 50v 1000uF one

Have you tested that those cam and vtx bridging ports output actual voltage? in website they have mentioned no actual voltage output.

Do you have the beta flight setup for this yet?

I've a question regarding the F7 camera_control: In betaflight cli is "resource CAMERA_CONTROL 1 NONE" out of the box. Which pin do I need to assign to get CC working?

What uart is CC (camera control) pad?

Hola. Es compatible con dji o3?

Is this usable with dji plugnplay air unit?

can you setup esc amp draw with this stack mine seems way off not sure if i did something wrong

My Lipo strap ripped off the “330” k ow of a suitable replacement?

Can you blackbox log this?

My esc is not reading my motor number 2 and its new so can it be that I have the esc and fc connector on backwards?

Would this fit in a 15mm build or is this stack too tall

Hi there, Is my fist time making my own drone, and I bought this components for it. I was wondering if you could you tell me the total height ones you have it mounted?. I am not sure which H standoffs should I buy, for me looks like 5mm would be okey. Could you help me with that? Thank you I really appreciate it!

I had a crash and what other uart could I use for my dominator fat sharks vtx

My vtx and camera are getting no power.
I have bridged both pads to 5V correctly.
I’ve checked all cables and wires.
I’m not too sure what to do.
Any help is appreciated :)

$120?....wow!

Hi
I got this esc ...
Do you think it's too risky to take off the heat sink on this t motor ESC to put conformal coating and to reglue?

does this fc have betaflight osd?

Can this be loaded with INAV?

Same new pilot so I will get that 👍

Good review.  Looks like a really good FC.

I'd use R1 for receiver and T5 for telemetry for FrSky SBUS.  R1 for FrSky Fport.  R1/T1 for crossfire. R1 for Spektrum or iBus.
T2 (runcam) or CC for camera control.  If using GPS rescue, then T2 for that instead of runcam control.
T3 for VTX control
R4 for ESC telemetry

M5 and M6 can be remapped for softserial for non-chatty UART applications. (like if wanting runcam UART cam control AND GPS AND FrSky SBus and Telemetry - put UART cam control on softserial)

Also if you wire VTX straight to vbat or 5v pad without bridging you lose the possibility of pit mode (as it switches + voltage, not ground).

Like the Tmotor products.  Very high quality.  Likely to use this stack on 6S race builds in the future.

Where do you get the drivers for this? I built mine and connected it to beta flight with what looked like the right driver but when connected none of the tabs on beta flight seem to work. Won’t spin the motors or detect its attitude.

I use this F722 Stack with the F55 ECS from T-Motor on four of my quads (2x 4S and 2x 6S). I am absolutely happy with them and have never had any issues so far. Previously, I've used the also pretty new Diatone Mamba F722S Stack and I had 'de-syncs' on like every 4-6 flights. Tried everything with Firmware, BLHeli de-mag settings, idle values, different motors, etc.. nothing helped and it was a real pain. This T-Motor Stacks is rock solid and I can also highly recommend it. It is pretty expensive though. What I've also realized is that some boxes come with racewires and some with plastic clips to hold down the motor wires, so there is inconsitancy in what is inclueded, eventhough they wer all brand new and factory sealed. As I don't use race wires, I don't care that much. :)

Can you please do BrainFPV Radix next?

can use wifi?

Can i add gps on this ?

So many of these setup guides don't actually show setup or programming...

Is the escs suppose to light up solid red?  Also i notice a light buzz coming from the escs

Can I use this with a Flysky Nirvana? Can I connect the Flysky Receiver to that stack?

My vtx not getting any power, i bridged the pit mode pad and 5v pad. Any idea ?

I have a buddy using this ESC on a 10 inch quad. 180 amp punch on 6S. Very solid ESC.

Question  can you use this FC with the DJI system FPv ?

Thanks for the amazing content! I just bought this fc and rush fpv solo vtx. I put one solder blob to two pads (bat and middle one, below vtx pads) to choose battery voltage. I soldered wires for dc in, gnd, video and smart audio to 4 top pads. But I get no power to vtx. Did I do something wrong? Or I should remove solder blob that bridges two pads below, for battery or 5v selection, and just put red wire to bat pad, without any bridging? Im worried I did something wrong. Plugged in with smoke stopper, reported everything ok, but no leds on vtx. I didnt touch those three pads for VTX on or pit at the back side of fc.

Can I go with 4S with this or only 6S?

I'm currently installing that esc as we speak and blheli32 configurator won't recognise motor 4 literally nothing I do will make it spin

Their 1st ever  F7?  I could swear you were saying THE 1st ever F7 Flight controller.  This was a great video, but, I'm going to stick with Matek F7s.

am i intox... or is ur cam mount  pumping ? :)

Cam control not working with this board, i wired up a jb runcam the same way i did on my last build that had a similar pinout. Any ideas?

 @jamestavernier8222  I will assume use are using the CC pin on the T-Motor F722 board connected to the analog cam control pin on the camera.  No resistor or pull up capacitor required.  Configure via the instructions at:  https://github.com/betaflight/betaflight/wiki/FPV-Camera-Control-(Joystick-Emulation)

For particular cameras you may need to look for settings in the RC Groups compatibility thread: https://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showthread.php?2961216-Betaflight-Camera-Control-Compatibility-Reports

Make sure that the same camera voltage is in use (5v or vbat).

UART camera control is a different story.

Don't you mean T1 for Frsky Fport?

 @Bacon-ol3yr  If running Fport, yes put that on T1.  My mistake in original comment.

Fport runs on a T port instead of an R port as it is bi-directional based off FrSky telemetry.  Great alternative if you lift an R pad or burn an R trace.  Pain to get going on an F4 board, but fine on an F7 (and you get RSSI for free, no extra channel).

From memory, Fport latency was measured to be almost the same as SBUS.

Second that

hey same for me, how you fixed this?

Yes ofc

were you ever able to figure this out? I am having the same issue... Pitmode bridged to "on," cam bridged to "5V," and Vtx bridged to "bat," no power from + pad or the bat pad...

It’s a 55a ESC it would not have a peak punch of 180amps. Come now

 @AndrewBlanche  55x4=220

I was pulling almost 220A, took it like nothing. It is a robust ESC.

Jimmy Paul Cerna Belleza yes , you can use it!!! Just solder the qires into fc. Super simple!

In the video, he says you can solder directly to bat or 5v for the vtx. And on the back you have to choose either on or pit

 @29jvskate  Thank you John. But this fc indeed has 10v pads. But now power in them.

I'm having the exact same issue

I run 4s with this setup no worries

How is the esc connected to the FC?

Are you on dshot through betaflight? You might have it set on oneshot for some reason.

First ever T-Motor F7 correction.

