That's some fine pulsed DC you made there

Excellent...Very simple....The great one.  I will try it.

Excellent demo friend for replication thank from Argent

very good my friend

All elements of the scheme are passive, none are active. How the inverter works then, there is a doubt.

Very good bro.

Good❤

Генератор переменного напряжения вмонтирован в аккумулятор.

Chuyên gia chế mạch điện rất tuyệt vời anh có thể chuyền cho em bí kíp này không

Good 👍❤

i was thinking it can coverts to 220volts used a brigh re

de cuanta potencia en watt hablamos?

Nilai kapasitor yang besar nya berapa soalnya tdk ada tulisan keteranganya.yg lainya tercantum datanya

what is the resistance of a tranformer between a secondary and the primary windings pleased explants

❤.good

That switch box is the actual inverter😂

is this inverter is pure sine wave inverter???/

At 0:08 your finger is at less than 2 millimeters from the live output (red or white cables). You missed an award !

Wow

1)Ты включай их в разные розетки. 2) Включи дрель без розетки 😂

Thank bro

Great comment, thanks

Thank bro

I really don't understand your question, can you be more specific?

LOL...

Oke

Thank bro

Sir ek video 220 v dc to 220 v ac ki banao

De cuántos watts es?
Buen video y gracias

😮

Good luck 🤞

This man was came from mintal hospital he's crazy

I am sorry, but it does not work at.

❤❤❤❤❤

Pity that there is no information on more or less how many watts can be obtained there; THIS FOR THOSE OF US WHO DON'T KNOW MUCH ABOUT ELECTRONICS

Mintak sekemanya om, 🙏

Ο τύπος είναι φανταστικός παίρνει κόλληση και στοιχεία τα κολλάει μεταξύ τους και νομίζει ότι κάτι κάνει. Το πιθανότερο να μην έχει ιδέα που ηλεκτρονική

Это схема 100% не работает.

temenan belih kue kang sampean aja seneng ngapusi

Não funciona esse projeto.eu fiz com as mesmas pessas i não funciona

1) Looks like crazy but do not soak him into mud, give a try and see if it works or not. 2) What I wonder is, well the Bosch drill turns but will it be able to drill a hole? What is the output power?

The problem with connecting the positive and negative of a bridge rectifier in reverse to a DC power source is that all diodes become forward biased and short circuit the supply until the bridge or supply fail.

pure sine wive?

Can it work with just one diode bridge?

Powie mi ktoś jak plus z akumulatora będzie wstanie płynąć przez minus mostka prostowniczego?

pdfလေးပြပါလါးခင်ဗျာ လုပ်ကြည့်ခြင်လို့ပါ

Eu vou faz aqui em casa seguindo o projeto. Se funciona eu comento aqui. Hj 29-12-2023

Great comment, It is 500w. Thank bro

why do you say it's a fake project, I spent a lot of time making it. If you say it's fake, please point it out

 @DIY_Generator  sorry bro

why do you say i got electric, you need proof

Đúng vậy mạch này không có mofet không có dao động sao hoạt động được điốt không làm được gì

diode có chức năng chuyển điện AC sang DC, nhưng nếu bạn biết cách sử dụng nó thì có thể làm điều ngược lại bạn nhé

Boi cụ c

It it working

Thank bro 🥰🥰🥰

Thank

Thanks for your great comment. The drill can rotate but when there is a heavy load it will not work because the capacity is not enough

Điốt không có tác dụng gì trong mạch này ac quy đã có sự cải tiến bên trong

آیا میدانستید که ساختار ترانزیستور از دیود هست و ترانزیستور از پیوستن دو دیود ساخته میشود بنظر من کاملا درسته

I did it on purpose to reverse the rectifier function of the diode so that it can generate AC power

 @DIY_Generator  It doesn't work that way.

You can probably get a battery charger out of that but you're not going to get electricity out of it I don't care Bridge rectifier and I'm not sure which way you hook them up well or not produce electricity

Yes. diode can do the opposite turning DC electricity into AC

może można bo w tym momencie mam podłączony kondensator i to zmienia stan diody

 @DIY_Generator   A czy kondensator przewodzi prąd stały. Tak czy inaczej zlutuje to i zobaczę na oscyloskopie co się stanie i co się dzieje w takim układzie?

ترانزیستور از ترکیب دو دیود به وجود می آید

هذا كلو كذب هناك خدعة

လိုက်နာရန် ဗီဒီယိုရှိ circuit diagram ကို သင် ကိုးကားနိုင်သည်၊ ဗီဒီယိုတွင် ကျွန်ုပ်တွင် အဆင့်ဆင့် ညွှန်ကြားချက်များ ရှိပါသည်။

Hello Did you fix this inverter? Did it work or not? Please tell me.

Fis um mas não funcionou porque só que fis com outro diodo

It's very cool. I wonder if the TV  will work with this system?

Ada skemanya kang bro

The drill can work on Dc current

Parabéns😎

How many watts does it output?

👉👏👏👏🇨🇨👍👍👍👈

❤❤ great 👍 work bro 🥰 keep up

Чёта я самниваюсь что тваё изабритения будет работать  дрель пиременова тока Ани пастаянова для чиво диодные масты

Какова его мощность

Minta skemanya dong om

😱бред рябой кобили

از اتصال دو عدد دیود یک ترانزیستور بوجود می آید

What is the frequency

Who tried it and succeeded

Voltage doubler circuits using diodes and capacitors only work when fed with AC.

This circuit is using DC.

This is fake.

DC çıkışlı bu olmamis

😂😂

YouTube alinaldo inversor

This is a trick and not the truth. He is laughing at the audience and viewers

Creo que es porque no lo hiciste como yo lo hice y no funciona.

They will not reply this

Thank bro, TV can work with this system

Oke thank

Thank bro

Thank bro, wish you all

manda esquema pra mim

manda Esqema prá min

Inverter 220v

??😭😭

That is right

50hz, thank bro

Do you know the use of a diode is to convert AC into DC? If you know a little more about electricity, it can do the opposite. convert DC electricity into Ac

Nó xảy ra

😄😄😄

I don't laugh at anyone. I always love and respect my audiences

An absolute fake. How could switching the polarity of a DC input voltage to on off AC without any switching circuit?

❤❤❤Ok

el taladro  esta  trucado  , con un motor  adentro

not working :text-green-game-over:

220v 60h?

The transformer is too small

Diode cant use as a switch that’s why you get transistor

PLEASE....schematic!!!!

Drill is too slow😢

কত টাকা লাগবে জানাবেন

very fake I'm try but not working

No se Rick

Bhi kun itni mahnat krka khud ko out dosron ko ulo bnata ho

Have ocsilation between anode and cathode  the capacitor change

Itni bisti ki ha reply lazmi krna ka ya fake ha

Picaretagem pura

Kitna Watt load lega

fake

Picaretagem pura.

12v to 12v 😂😂😂

220v 1500w

Is is small, but it still has enough capacity to operate

Diode cant use as a transitor

That is right. Good comment

Watt load lega max 500w

 @DIY_Generator  thankyou

I agreed with you.

That is real

Very fake..

Real not fake

That means let me not waste my time on this

It won't even make a battery charger Bridge rectifier AC to DC only I don't care how many which was you hook it up you're not going to produce electricity from rectifiers

See, they can't test the output voltage which is AC. They have no idea which voltage is it. Actually in this video you can use multitester to check the output but he cant test because they are fake

SUPER

Hmmmm!?

FAKE!!!  The mains filter coil is connected in parallel, so in this configuration, it's just a short circuit. I suppose it's done to activate the hidden power source in the power strip.

Very very fake 🤥🤥🤥

en serio chicos no fumen  mas crayolas  verdes  , antes de  publicar  otro  disparate  de  ideas  de  electronica  que  incendien  sus  cuartos

Дарвін -відпочиває

Very fake

😂😂😂😂ce panarama 😅

Cap 2A683J , a nie  2A2963J  🤔

cuantos   de votos dislike   nesecitas   para  que  baneen  tu  canal  ?  por  hacer  fake

It's wastage of time

Scam....

Bro love you for fake videos

Sahte boşuna  Meşgul olmuşsun

😂😂😂 fake  all products are working in 12V  not 🚫 at the  AC V 😂😂😂😂

😂😅 don't try this at home...

Waste of time😅

ممكن نعرف المحول شنو لاي جهاز تلفزيون 📺

Mann sieht das die machine keine power hat

100 NF

Thank bro

if you say it's fake then please show how the drill and the light bulb can light

 @DIY_Generator   I've already mentioned that the power source is in the 220V power strip. But please explain how it works!

Cap 2A638j

 @DIY_Generator   Ja tylko napisałem prawidłowy opis kondensatora ze stop klatki który widać na obudowie kondensatora ponieważ nie jest zgodny z opisem na filmie tak samo ten opis w Twej odpowiedzi też jest błędny 1:46

Good idea for earning in YouTube

Why

Why ??

Wow thank bro

Fake

No fake

