Click here to watch💙 👉 https://youtu.be/qmKb7pSZzN8

Buenísimo video,  gracias

I simply love your video style, truly refreshing and creative. 👍

Excellent my friend, very nice video😁👌 good day and good hack😜✌

Wonderful project

Nice video, thanks for sharing it :)

Very informative video 🙏🙏🙏

Такие регуляторы мы в школе собирали, для фонариков, а ещё мигалки на 2х транзисторах разной проводимости.

Nice thumbs up

Thank you very much!

No resistor was harmed in the making of this video 😂

very good!

Que demais!

Very nice x

Nice multimeter

Guaaaa...Fantastic Tester...!!...ji ji ji Saludossss

Super!

Чоткий ясно спасибо большое красивые ролик спасибо за хорошие видео понравился

Te  felicitoo

Very good

That’s not safe!

I need it

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Q1

LoL i have scavenge some components from old useless electronics so i made one rather than buying saves money                        
                                                                      
Also had to test it a lot of time, and do some findings on internet to be sure not to burn my house kind of a funny experience

this ... this is why i liked the video he's honest

Napapunta ako sa comment section..

😂

😂😂😂😂 crazy pls don't do it

Thanks Sir

Thank you .

Great

thank you

Wow good music..

Woow kreatif

Чувак, у тебя резистор горит!!!🤣
По всей видимости, схема "относительная", без ШИМ, это не серьёзно... при больших токах и низких оборотах, если подавать к примеру 12в, и на выходе 4в, то эти 6в, при токе потребления...куда девать? - преобразуется в тепло! При чем не хилый такой нагрев, т.к. полевики эфективно работают именно в импульсном режиме, для ключевого режима, при таком использовании, в один прекрасный момент, тупо пробьёт.
250 полуляхов из 250ти.

the resister allready hahah

Тоже хочу собрать такой мультиметр/только своим паяльником и своими руками/,вот собрал же человек.

Bạn làm tốt lắm

Nice

Cool

Exelente

Good practice to make useful circuit.💯🧡❤🧡🖐🤚👋

The resistor on the center pin needs to be higher wattage

ขอบคุณครับ

Solder skills bro

Good

Mạch điều khiển tốc độ của bạn rất hữu ích

galing

Не, бро, тут килоляхами попахивает. При подаче 12В на лампу (25В на входе) и токе около 5А, на транзюке выходит около 60Вт тепла (у меня паяльник от стыда покраснел), которые должен рассеить кусочек аллюминия с половину спичечного коробка... Дью даже материться не смог бы, от потери дара речи.

Срочно доктору Дью на ковёр чувака😁

Ну чего пристали к человеку, право слово, проводки изогнутые под 90 градусов при навесном монтаже, красиво же получилось, ну и что, что резистор калится, главное сделать вид, что так и должно быть, "он художник, он так видит"

Алилуя, кто то расписал)

Парни ну для новичков пойдет так побаловаться

 @anapski.kulibin  ну как бы да, если новичок побаловаться решит... А если какую приблуду для гаража или дачи замутит? Хорошо если кончиной приблуды дело и закончится.

Если от 12В будет 4 на нагузке, то на транзюке будет падать не 6, а 8В

Наши)))))

Да он просто перепутал центральный вывод переменного резистора с крайним,что он посадил на затвор.

Как будто скопипастил видео,,.без обяснения что за микросхемка, (думал что лм). Мне как новичку было не понято почему был припаян резистор к первой и третей ноге,,...ну и посмотрел распаковку тестера....😏😏😏

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

dobry koło 😅

Hola saludos desde Colombia una pregunta quiero hacer una tarjeta de reguladora de velocidad con 3 transistores 13009 para un motor de 1000w 90v 11A si me sirve amigo

Ja diese einfache Schaltung bekannt

Cette vidéo à été très utile merci infiniment

bonsoir salut bon mardi soir bonne soirée :)

wow good speed controller circuit for dc motor

I simply love your video style, truly refreshing and creative.

Очень интересно но ничего не понятно. Сделай распиновку для чайников какая детелька для чего нужна и как движется ток (со стрелочками указывающие направления )

Pode ser usado para reduzir a veçocidade de uma esmerilhadeira?

Anh ơi làm mạch boot áp 3.7 lên 12v đi

👍👍👋👋❤️

Salam satu hobi

Muy buen trabajo 👍

Нужно использовать ШИМ чтобы регулировать без потерь ! 😉🤓

Скиньте пожалуйста ссылку где мультиметр покупали

qual é esse moto??muito bacana o projeto.

easy

Мультиметр 👍

me gusta

Can,t operate high current load better use pwm to control mosfet

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Таково регулятора двигатель  потеряет мощност

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Saludo para un motor trifasuco DC me sirve este circuito ? Es para una corta grama

👍

Caray!! Se quemó la resistencia de 200 Ohmios!

Респект за музичний супровід!

Cuales son los materiasles que utilizaste en este video

Tengo que usar ese transistor o puedo usar otros?, yo tengo muchos pero no sé que hace ninguno o si son para lo mismo subir o bajar voltaje

Pour  réduire la force et le bruit de mon aspirateur ❤❤❤

Здравствуйте. Хороший мультик у вас, с осциллографом, очень удобно. Сколько стоит этот прибор, скажите пожалуйста, а так же, магазин, где вы его покупали? Я так понимаю, Али?

Caray con la resistencia.

De cuanto es el transistor

Gostei desse multímetro aí, hein garoto! 🙂👍
Parabéns pelo projeto do controle de velocidade!👏🤝

eu quero aprender isso aquir ei casa

Какую нагрузку будет держать на электродвигателе?

Que tipo de resistencias usas ahí broo?

Mạch sai bét😂

E o resistor que torrou 1:40 ?

You need diode protection for the motor

Dear, Can I also test brushless  engines of RC helicopters, airplanes and cars with this? I have an assortment of resistors, but your 200 Ohm is not among them, but I have a 180 Ohm and 220 Ohm instead. Can I use one of this instead or maybe not at all, even maybe yours, including the 47 K resistor (which I have)? Because I don't know what they are for? Although I am a layman at this, I believe that a potentiometer serves to regulate the intensity of the voltage and to control the power, the mosfet is for voltage stability. Good video and interesting. Thank you in advance.

Can you give me a parts list of what I need 🙏or what components do you for DIY?👍

How crazy would it be to actually explain what each one of those components are on that board cuz watching that with music is just so helpful

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Me puede servir el irfp 264

Индикация на мультиметре хиповая!!! )))))))

приведите расчет под этот транзистор и на какой ток и напряжение вх и вых эта схема рассчитана

This is the most simple pwm I've ever seen

NOW I KNOW that "speed" means to INCREASE or to DECREASE voltage flow to output. I'm learning electronic speed controller (Drone ESC). This is awesome video for me. And, I'm not scared anymore if one of the resistor gets burned (happen to me my diy too) LOL - in fact, all works as expected. Thanks for nice tutorial.

Don't know why but it's oddly satisfying😅

What another electric motors can be use too and capacity too thanks a lote

Waduh belum dipakai resistornya sudah kebakar duluan..

01:38 ur 200 Ohms Resistor is burning 🤣

А сделать можно просто, не терять времени и купить.

Resistor ❤️‍🔥😂😂

Раньше ставили два пружины сопротивление и переключали их .Вот вам и ограничения тока,хотите 12 или 24 в то двигаете переключател

Hola muy buen video, sirve para regular la velocidad de una casetera? Saludos y gracias por todos los aportes que subes.

🤗

¿Qué tipo de transistor se requiere para un motor de un caballo de fuerza cuya velocidad es de 3,800 rpm para controlar su velocidad?.

Qual a corrente q aguenta?

untuk menggunakan baterai 12v  apakah ada perubahan untuk komponen rangkaiannya?

Manda para min as pesas que vai para eu tentar montar blz  e uma foto depois de pronto

The 200 ohm resister should have been 5 watt.  Other than that the circuit works great.  Also for more control, I used a 10 turn 50K potentiometer, I have better control of the voltage without the jumping or spikes. Smoothing capacitors also help.

Vixi !!! Antes de ligar o motor , o resistor já tinha torrado...

No  PWM.

It decreases "average" voltage. Even fast switching on and off by MOSFETs works (PWM).

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

 @anwin85alon  ??😅
Bhai  Hindi mehi bolo😅

No because they probably use bldc motor

If I wish to create the same speed controller for a 220v DC motor what are the suitable components?

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Achei bem simples este controlador de velocidade, mas observei que o resistor de 200 ohms quase queimou! Pensei que você iria substituí-lo, mas o circuito funcionou bem, é o que importa. Parabéns!

why the circuit normal running with broken resistor?

Please share circuit diagram

Why did the 220 ohms resistor burned?

Burn resistor and very hot mosfet

Mạch này cho con 200 omh kia ko chịu đc điện áp từ triết áp ra chung với chân giữa của mostphet

Nice Video  !!!! But it's  possible to give a schéma i know this circuit is simple but its good to can see a schema  for a beginner.

Uno para un motor trifasico

Why is that resistor connected to the centre pin of the black square burning?

Dalo by sa dosiahnuť vyššiu rýchlosť na ebike? Teraz ide max 27 km/h. 
Motor 350w, bateria 36v 12ah dakujem

Kkkkkkkkkkkkk o resistor de 200 torrou ficou preto

Why  resistor burn, at the  base  of transistor

Составной транзистор нужно использовать кт827 например,или два простых.Тогда ничего не будет гореть.А так и переменник скоро крякнет.

1:36 resistor is already burning and smoking before motor was attached. 😅

bro  it can also double up as a fire starter

Hi there can’t you make video how to use this product wired to a 3000w brushless motor with 3 phase wires and 5 pin hall sensor wire would like to know in Which of the wire is best to wired it from or can’t you make one that does I would like to take my from 3000w to 5000w if is possible

Muy bueno pero como se llama cada parte cada elemento

Direnç duman oldu 😂😂

What would have been better would be to have the motor spin in either direction depending upon the position of the potentiometer

Can use dinamo 12volt 100ampere?

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

You can visit the channel page through the link below the video in the description box

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

это ролик про то как вставлять батарейки в мультиметр

O resistor quase pegando fogo...

Por qué motivo se quemó la resistencia ?

Lastima la resistencia que se esta quemando!

Se le quemo una resistencia esta fallo

Hello #inventorKR I have a  suggestions, can you face reveal please

What gauge wire is the solid core stuff?

How to make a brushless blower motor controler

The voltage regulator you made works.  But it gets very hot within a few seconds 2.20a 1.70a load can't be held.  My time and two failed

Tem um resistor fimaçando.

Làm video mà đang sử dụng cháy bố con trở mà cũng đăng được.

👍🏼👍🏼👍🏼

kalau untuk putaran dinamo biar bisa bolak balik bisa gak

You say "Circuits and diagrams can be found on the blog" .  I was unable to find it . can you share it here ?

Excelente, una pregunta, sirve para un taladro de 12 voltios, inalámbrico?

Resistor in midle burn out

con cuantos amperios puede ese controlador?

Como que falta algo,, se arranca de golpe,, no eficazmente regulado, para que el motor arranque desde baja revoluciones

Would this work for car fan

MORE POWER FOR RESISTOR

👍💛💛💛👍

No.
MOSFET doesn't work, use voltage regulator transistor.
3A (36-1.2V) LM2576, 20k pot, 1.5k resistor, 1000uf Capacitor
1.5A (12-0V) LM137/LM350, 10k pot, 1k resistor, 1000uf capacitor.

What happend to the resistance, why did it burn. I think You left the power supply open 25 volts, letting it drain current through the power mosfet by letting it All Go through a 200 ohms/.25 watts

ok

GDS, somethink wrong

Input volt whith source output with drain,

Cómo es que te funcionó si se quemó una resistencia cuando estás soldando el motor en el vídeo 1:39

One content, two languages. What I have now written may have a perfect mirror in another language.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Hello!can I use it how controller for electric bike?

1:35 register

Сопротивление на средней ножке транзистора сгорело в самом начале....подстава

Sirve para un motor de 48 v lógico con una fuente a 48 v?

Hi thanks for the video. What's the lowest voltage you can use in this circuit? Thanks!!

Can you show me the page with the link name and the schematic diagram?

Is this mirror.? I thought the emitter wouldn't be positive. Idk

Hola yo ise el circuito como se muestra le quite la resistencia de 47k,sustitui la de 200 ohm por 220 ohm y el transistor que use es un TIP 718 y me funciono bien Gracias amigo buen video

Резистор у кого то задымился 🤣🤣🤣🤣

Резистор дух испустил😃

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger

Why this silimusic is needed. You should explain instead.

Hi hi inzynier  samouk, zaprojektowany uklad nadaje sie do lutownicy, rezystor poradziłby sobie z rozgrzaniem grota do 450 stopni....

Si laroen espanis

Мне одному кажется, что перед подключением мотора сгорел резистор на 20ком

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Как  это  можно  не заметить ?

 @rocketsland9539  
Ну так, сам автор же не заметил! ))

pagi bro kalau kita mau bikin yang jarak nya 100 km atau lebih bisa tidak?

So from the source does it go through the 200ohm resistor or does it go straight to pin 2 of the potentiometer? Please answer me.

mosfet only good work in conmutation pwm.

Parts plz

Xin hỏi đầu vào điện 220v được không????

Esa resistencia de base no le aguanta el amperaje 😂

Video is not over, your 200 ohm resistor has started to burn 😁😁😁

Hello, it cannbe used with 36-40V motor?

from where i can get this multimeter and ocilloscope

😂😂 middle damage

What will happen if the bearing of the motor damaged and the motor can not run?

If you run a dc 555 motor with your voltage regulator 12 2.20amp load, a lot of hits work but a lot of hits do not work.

The resistor100 ohm at colector is brokenor burned bro?

Meh, PWM with an NPN would have been optimal in this case.

The resistor is burning it can't control the voltage output

R ไหม้แล้วครับ55555

На минимуме резистор попадает на минус и горит, схема не по фен-шую.

Coilnya tebal berapa bang,?

What happen to the middle resistor it just burned

Saludo es mejor siempre poner el circuito en captura de pantalla q perder el tiempo buscando  dnel arsenal de cosas asi lo hace muxha gente

OK

The resistor burned this just temporary circuit

How much ways used

А резистор задымел почему не то сопротивление

Can k use irfz44n?

I need to contro the speed of a 120v DC motor. What can I do?

good idea but bad degin

Y para 120vdc?

Hola buen día, una pregunta porque se quema la resistencia

У меня у одного припой не ложится пока не зачистишь концы???

Y si el motor pide amperaje como la de un carrito de niño al empujar su peso se quemaría ese transistor necesito reducir la tensión para que no caliente las baterías no no veo que sea eficiente tú reductor

1:37

Buen  te felicito pero mi pregunta es  con que transformador o voltage.  Lo coloca funcionar un. Plano  o mejor explicado  voy a seguirte para. Ver tus projectos

It definitely works, however this configuration uses the MOSFET in resistor mode, thus wastes way more power in comparison with PWM mode.

Este puede servir como regulador de volumen de sonido?

معي موتور تيار متردد 220 فولت سرعته 16000 لفه كيف اتحكم في سرعته

Ho costruito questo semplice regolatore sostituendo la resistenza da 200 ohm ma ha funzionato solo pochi secondi e poi ha preso fuoco il potenziometro

1:37 resistor caput

ไม่ไห้รายละค่าอุปกรณ์อิเล็กทรอนิกส์

Muito bom parabéns visita o meu canal fica com Deus abraços

:stayhome::washhands::washhands:

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

 @anwin85alon   I've never installed a solar charger, but I'm sure there are tutorials on YouTube about how to do it.

It can't

Volume control is AC but this is DC

Thanks

Резистор на 200ом помирает, весь черный

R 200 je postigao radnu temperaturu

Hocam kolay gelsin  sizlerden bir ricada bulunacak   sabit 12v 50ampr amperlik  dc dc regülatör devresi  bekliyoruz  kolay gelsin

How are you brother can I ask a question I know MOSFET He's got three legs 1GATE Signal Input 
2 DRAIN output voltage 
3Input voltage 
How did you make the voltage output from SOURCE possible clarification and thank you

Como faço um circuito para fazer motor girar num sentido e inverso,  igual carrinho de impressora que corre num eixo de um lado para outro e qdo toca numa chave,  muda sentido de rotacao.

What are the components you are using?

No se le quemó la resistencia? Jajajaj quedó negra, ya ni se puede saber de cuento es sin un tester jajaja

Please change register

200 ohm  resistor smoked

Схема простая, но непродуманная! Какой источник используется по входу? Почему нет мощного конденсатора на выходе? Транзистор работает практически на землю, он будет сильно греться!!

❤️👍👍👍👎

May God bless you. How do we choose the required resistance size if I want to ride it to get rid of the airbag problem?

No speed control ! This is voltage divider, can be a education tool.
For speed or Light brightness control, must have pwm or similar circuits.

La résistance de 200 ohms a surchauffe é

name song please

Ну и схема! Управляемый резистор из транзистора вся мощность на нем выделяется ну и греется транзистор соответственно.

Чувак схему нарисуй а паять я умею. Фрекенбок.

Don't get it you can purchase in 2022 a fully populated speed   DC motor controller PCB with thermal protection for a couple of quid and that includes delivery...

Resister burn ho gaya

Sonraki video devre mevcut olacak

Vou trabalhar neste circuito em breve

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

The resistor is burn 😜

Can we change the middle register to a higher rating because this guy can't handle it 😅

Se kemo el resistor 😒😒😒😒

ASTER, THERE IS A PROJECT CAN YOU HELP?
^^ THE ESSENTIAL WORK IS THERE IS A CONVEYOR BAND TO WHICH THE ENCODERED DC MOTOR IS CONNECTED, WHEN THE BAND IS TURNED 1 COMPLETE, THE ENGINE TAKES 25 TURS IN TOTAL, THE CONVEYOR BAND GETS 150 KG SAND IN 1 ROUND, 140KG SCALE AGAIN. THE EXAMPLE REQUESTED FROM US IS TO TAKE 1 TURN, WRITE THE MEASURED WEIGHT, SAVE IT IN THE MEMORY AND DRAW 200 KG OR 250 KG SAND ^^ HOW CAN WE DO THIS?

By simulating this circuit in the Proteus software, I realized that the current only passes through the resistors and the potentiometer, and this MOSFET has no role in this circuit, that's why the 200 Ohm resistor was burned because the current was not controlled and a lot of it was passed!!

Ну да...прикольно...а резистор то сгорел...

Thanks 🙏 i need 4 prong wired and the Algo is being difficult today can you tell me what the 4th prong is for on mine

Una  duda y motor dc 90 voltios podrá servir

Alguien aqui podria responderme por cuales elementos tendría que sustituir para que este dimmer funcione con 110 volts y 4000 watss?...lo agradeceria mucho

disconnect the negative wire to the potentiometer  or flip the center pin and the right side so that the resistor not burn...

200 r r.ı.p

What happened in the middle residence be came black

Your 200 ohm resistor wattage to low

cuanto dura hasta que se queme todo porque la resistencia del medio se quema de entrada?

No entiendo Inglés  .

resistor blew

Es una instalación de electronica básica con cierta falla en el diseño 
Hay una falla una resistencia se recalienta y humea y es porq cuando gira el potenciómetro a la izquierda le ingresa todo el voltaje de fuente a la resistencia , otro sistema podría ser elementos de transistores en cascada con seguridad y protección para proteger la parte de control de la parte de fuerza sin sáturar ningún elemento en todo el sistema

👉👉👍

Transistor burne out

Y también funciona con corriente alterna 🤔 ??

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

mira bro el las ferreterias e comprado dimer  pero  pedi que sean de verdad el precio lo ba desir

the positive and the negative will short the resistor when it set in the minimum

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

si es cierto

💛💛💛💛🌹

Hocam ortadaki resitans neden yankı biliyormusun acb

NO

It couldnt work for me

Cambiá la musica !! 😝😝

What hapen with midle rezistor

IGBT RATING?

Why so complicated ?

Can use for aircond compressor?

HOLA SIRVE IRF Z 44N

Rangkaian ini apakah bisa d terapkan d batri 3,7 vol....? 🙏🙏

Thank you for showing how NOT to make a dc control circuit.
Unless you like the smell of burnt resistors.

Como hago para ponerlo a funcionar con un termistor positivo.? ( ptc )

Resistor kebakar tod.

Que tipo de transistor, potenciómetro y resistencia usaste broo??

And that resistor smoking, was it low wattage? Thanks for the video.

Этот регулятор нельзя использовать для двигателей ! Мощность теряется ! Надо делать шим преобразователь  !

Резистор горит!

200 ohms registere just died bro

Bhi mara voloum jal gaya

Usok ang resistor

Can I use this for 54 volts ebike motor tjanks

От нуля, до 12 v нет стабильности. Напряжение скачет.

Smokingggggg

2w resistor would have lasted longer.

Obviously that was changed out several times making this video.

١١

Smoking

🐱🚬

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

Burned 😂😂😂😂😂

Não precisa de um redistor. O potenciômetro  e o transistor já fazem esse trabalho.

 @charleshudner4149  if you don't use that middle resisters, potentiometer will die

Yes, of course, this electronic project can be used to control the speed of the air compressor motor

Yes

Yes, you can use a 3.7V battery with this circuit!

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

MOSFET doesn't work, use voltage regulator transistor.
3A (36-1.2V) LM2576, 20k pot, 1.5k resistor, 1000uf Capacitor
1.5A (12-3V) LM137/LM350, 10k pot, 1k resistor, 1000uf capacitor.

YES

Yes, you can, but make sure before that of the specifications of the transistor that you will be using and you can use the Mosfet irf740

R 220 was burning

Rsisrtornya kebakar

Waste of a nice mosfet for an open air circuit. You should show both ways. Open air makes it easy to figure out ehats going on but it teaches bad personal safety practices.

los project

Esta mal diseñado, observen la resistencia de la mitad como se quema, tiene que intercambiar los cables del potenciómetro. Que el de la mitad vaya a la base del transistor.

Русски.язык

Только шим, а это херня

Схема гениальная. Наконец -то в радиоэлектронике появилось что-новое за последние 20 лет. Или за 30 🤨.

Warum ist ein Widerstand zw Gate und Source? Ich möchte das gern nachbauen und dazu verstehen. Ist zudem die Verbindung Gnd zum Poti nötig? Reicht es nicht aus ohne? Lg

Can i use this in long time?

R gosong itu

sir. I have moset 250 , 56k resistance & b22k regulator . can i make this circuit ?

poor resistor :-)

If i add a diode and spin the motor will it charge the battery??🤔🤔🤔🤔

the resistor is burnt.......

How many amps it can drive

According to the circuit you made, from the source it goes through the 200ohm resistor and then into the mosfet, or from the source it goes straight into the mosfet. Please answer me.

la résistance a été brûlées

Большой провал на старте

hawo ampere to 25 v  ¿

Pm me can you to install do sola paint of charger-

You can use this for long Time.

and i have a denso 12v wiper moter

NO

I see that the input is 25v dc, and the bulb reach on full light at 4.3 amp.

through the mosfet

 @inventorkr1  This means that from the source it will go straight to pin 2 of the mosfet

250w

Hi Sir,
Can you make one circuit for me.
I have Mppt Solar charge controller and I want to make it Hybrid.
1- When Solar power is present then Controller cutoff the electricity power.
2- When Solar Power not present then controller Check battery voltage If the battery Drop to 11 voltage then Electricity on and charge the battery upto 14 voltage.
3- when Battery reach 14 volt from electricity then cut off electricity and wait for Solar or If solar not present and battery drop off to 11 volt again then again charge from electricity till solar not available.

In this circuit Relay used for switching solar or Wapda charger.

Would that work for a 220v DC Motor? If not could you please specify the suitable components?

it will not take to long  it   resistor burn   sory    stop  doing  this    stop    thank you

mate, your resistor is smoking lmao. this is not only a motor speed controller, but also a motor warmer. in all seriousness, that is a massive waste of energy, and the wrong resistor for the circuit, you need one that is properly rated for this, or make a more efficient circuit... 4/10 , bad design, but nice video demo

Jeda nhai calega 😪😪😒

Напряжение и всё? А ток двигателя не имеет значения?

Muy bueno  su Video, Yenvo una pregunta ,  Porque se quemo la resistencia?...Pero más me dejo elevado cuando veo que después de quemarse la resistencia  le vuelve a meter corriente y el motor arranca, es un video con magia incluida?

резистор на затворе сгорел

No schematic diagram!
Difficult to follow!
👎

what kind of education is it

Super bad soldering

Why do you make everything as a dead-bug circuit? I don't like it at all.

какие-то 60 сборка без платы! тупость!

Your multy meeter name

Oye weon explica lo que  estás conectando no explicas nada uno no es adivinó fome tu vídeo

Фигня. Линейный регулятор, который дымит;)

Hola🌾🕊️🌾

Una Consulta Por Favor.
Este Circuito Es Silimar A Un Dimer??

Este Circuito No Afecta La Potencia En El Equipo??

Muchas Gracias

The Resistor is on fire!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Use pwm is safer.

Very poor design. Need to pwm.

IS THIS NOT GOOD

Contact me via the channel's email

 @inventorkr1  sir Kindly provide your Chanel email

Use MOSFET IRF740

Thanks for your reply 
How about the values of the resistors?

да

 @inventorkr1  Вот и я про тоже. Неплохо было бы показать какой ток потребляет двигатель.

Debido a que necesita un controlador pwm, el próximo video será sobre este circuito.

Details are below the video in the description box

Es similar, lo que está haciendo es controlar la corriente de forma lineal, es muy ineficiente y no sirve. Calienta demaciado el transistor.

глупость полная .

Ну и шляпа.

spalony rezystor

Ppl stop making videos if your afraid to talk

А Слабо тебе подключить двигатель гироскутер

Such a waste of money

Simple yes very! But also unreliable, dangerous and a total waste of effort, time and money.

I do not like this video because DC Motors regulated by voltage is crap as hell! PWM regulated Motors are much better! Do NOT try this at home.

Полная чушь 👎

Another useless music video!  😡 🤬

làm để kẻ khác ko biết họ còn học được như này thì mới đạt còn nhiều ông làm nhưng kiểu giấu nghề thì làm làm gì

Замучил в усмерть резистор. Транзистор на очереди...

Quais matérias usados nesse projeto

Hello resistor is fired

I'm watching from Russia.
Well done! I did everything perfectly!
And even managed to demonstrate advertising )
But, when connecting the motor, a diode is always placed parallel to the motor. Because, there will definitely be a breakdown of the mosfet under load.
But, where is the scheme????
should always be, the scheme is laid out separately! Even on such a primitive device! Well, or at least show it for 4-5 seconds. Then it will be professional and people will want to come in and order something else.
Author, where is the scheme?
.
Смотрю из России.
Молодец!  Всё отлично сделал!
И даже сумел рекламу продемонстрировать  )
Но, при подключении двигателя, всегда ставится диод параллельно двигателю.  Потому как, обязательно возникнет пробой мосфета при нагрузке.
Но, где схема????
Всегда должна быть, отдельно выложена схема! Даже на такое примитивное устройство! Ну или хотя бы показать её на 4-5 секунд. Тогда это будет профессионально и люди будут хотеть ещё заходить и что-то заказать.
Автор, где схема?

Резистор сгорел на видео

Only with few dollars you can buy pwm controller. Skip these nonsense circuits.

Резистор 20 Ом греется, так что даже стал черным ))) Вы считаете это надёжным устройством ))))?????

Sir can you help me out ?
I try for days to figure out how can I change frequency on inductive pick up coils on distributor?
I use 4 pin gm ignition module.
Im tired to fumel always with me distributor expecialy on cold morning I have starting problems.
What can I use to retard ore advance that thing?
That pick up coil has 2 wires marked positive and negative terminal it goes to the 2 pin on the gm ignition module the pick up coil operates around 3v .
So Im not shure what to use device that can control voltage ore frequency speed???
That pick up coil goes to analog/digital converter.

Дурак ?)) Двигатель гироскутера 3х фазный, ему нужен специальный драйвер для работы.

 @minidog8135  Да хватит Причём здесь трёхфазный У тебя тоже трёхфазный ты тоже подключал тебе что не слабо это сделать???

Блин ну ты же Кулибин Нет бы что подсказал

Worth a try

Mong rằng kênh hãy làm 1clip chỉ dẫn đầu đuôi thực hành rõ ràng rành mạch để những người yêu thích điện tử như tôi mất gốc sẽ có thể học hỏi và làm theo. Điện CN thì tôi biết và làm việc được gần 20 năm rồi nhưng điện tử thì bó tay chỉ có thể trọc ngoáy những bệnh phọt phẹt thôi nên mong rằng kênh hãy đáp ứng yêu cầu khán giả

Circuit diagram in the blog

 @inventorkr1 
"The scheme is in the blog" ?? ))
Seriously?? ))
I have to review the entire blog in order to see the scheme??
Why such idiocy?? ))
After all, the channel broadcasts very primitive devices.
Why do I need to review all that garbage in the blog??
Why not just leave a link immediately to the desired scheme??
This is an elementary disrespect to the visitors of the channel!!
.
"Схема находится в блоге" ??  ))
Серьёзно?? ))
Я должен пересмотреть весь блог, для того чтобы увидеть схему??
Для чего такой идиотизм?? ))
Ведь канал транслирует, очень примитивные устройства.
Для чего мне нужно пересматривать весь тот мусор в блоге??
Почему просто, не оставить ссылку сразу на нужную схему??
Это элементарное неуважение к посетителям канала!!

Если заменить наменал резистора с 20 Om на 3.3 KOm, все будет работать и греться как и положено будет только транзистор ;-) 
Сегодня применял эту схему )))

