Just built my dream quad. It’s bright blue skies and Bardwell releases a tuning video right when I need it.... too many things are going right today so my drone will definitely explode.

Nice Stick Overlay! :D

I find this hard to believe but OK…let’s learn something today!

THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR PROVIDING YET ANOTHER PUBLIC SERVICE!! I had absolutely NO IDEA that wires shouldn’t go over the accelerometer. Love your work man!

Gettin' into the guts of our quads... it's a lot of fun, and I personally am enjoying the process. Great vid!

This is the best stick overlay I've ever seen

Nice video - and excellent flying, of course!

I don't know what I would do without you JB 
thanks man

You sounded like morty at the end. Oh man jeez that quad flies good now ehh Rick!! Lol. Love the vids man!

OMG I got a GetFPV ad right before this video and you're in it!

Thanks a million. This really helped me dial in my Banggod 5 inch. 
Also, your alarm going off while you fly and try to talk over it was pretty hilarious.

That was very nice flying.

I'm watching Chris his videos for a few months now, and even though I don't fully understand everything he says, it really helps me to get a grip on what I am actually doing with pids, filters, etc.

OMG Josh, that flight was so exciting

Damn JB you flyin better and better!

dude..your flying is awesome

Goddammmmm that's crazy lol. Great flying!

Awesome to see Chris’s work done by you!  Thanks for this! Literally could listen to you and Chris all day!

Good to see Mark and Chris communicating.
Both offer top level information and advice.
Regards to both and to YOU JB.

Criss Rosser and JB FTW! FPV excellence.

ahahahhahaha bro

Hahaha , I feel this.

Did it explode yet

 @nolacross704  nah found a session 5 in perfect condition later that day on Facebook marketplace for $150. Flew 30 packs on a new drone with a new cam. Damn good day. May the Gods of sbang bless you all as well.

WOOO HOOO LAST BATTERRY!!!!

well? did it explode?

On god fr fr

is it sill working?

I love the drone but love the house. The view and space perfect.

Tried it and the quads are flying amazing. Rosser is the man!

That tune got you flying like a beast J.B

Chris is the man, his blackbox analysis is amazing. He is going to take this hobby to the next level!

The biggest help for me in learning what the P, I and D do is a video called "PID demo". A guy (Horizon 4 Electronics) made a box with a pointer that moves left and right. It had knobs for P, I and D on it and when he adjusts the knobs you can see what each one does and how it effects the pointer.

Fantastic, Joshua! Thanks a lot for all the tips! 😃
Stay safe there with your family! 🖖😊

It's been great to see the "banter" #short video's recently between you guys!
But can clearly see how much respect you guys hold for eachother!
Thankyou both for your Fantastic videos!
I learn something EVERY DAY from you!
Thanks for sharing the knowledge.

Great Job Mr. Bardwell!  Great Job 👍

Nicccceee pid tune / flying !!!

Josh you have sold yourself short , you to are a professional.

I really like the new stick overlays. Mind sharing how you did it?

Yes, much like you are numero uno for all things quadcopter, Chris is a fantastic resource for learning some great information and techniques 🙂

The filter settings are unbeleavable good on my toothpick with RPM filtering.   Thank You!!!

The coolest thing about Bardwell doing this video is that Chris is going to Blow UP in this hobby! Thanks for yet again sharing the love to others in the hobby. You have always been great about giving props to people with talent, as well as helping to build up those who deserve it

This is so good, things are getting so much easier for people tuning their quad. Big Thanks to Chris and you Josh, this is gonna help a lot of pilots flying a good quad!

i have his aos 5 v2 frame and i love it. would definitely recommend it

Amazing flight! a good tune is good but your skill can properly demonstrate it.

I definitely learned something today I see PID tuning in a new light I like tuning my quads by feel and sound as well this is awesome

Kudos for giving kudos 👍🏻. Very good video.

That quad looked and sounded as quick and responsive as an F1 car

Thanks for sharing

Great video. Thanks for the tips!

great effort~ finally done!

Joshua, you are the reason I'm still flying after 4 years man! I'm sure without all of you priceless info I would have long since gave up, somewhere along the way. You're a big part of this killer sport/hobby and are in the fpv  history archives, for sure. So, thank you for your invaluable contribution dude!
 Long live the info king of fpv, the know it all, the guru, Mr. JB!!!

Awesome video Josh 🙏🙏🙏🙏❤❤❤❤

Thank you for doing a companion series to Rosser's simple tune vids.  Can't wait for the remaining videos in your series to post.  I think the other folk(s) that make these tuning help videos are prone to talking over the heads of us non engineer types.

Let's go Josh!!!! Sheeeesh!!!!

Thanks!

Wow, it is awesome how much better you fly Joshua, just in a couple of years. Three packs a day. I need a bigger yard!

Joshua is a Freestyle professional now.

I haven't seen you fly in a while Josh, obviously you have too much time cause you are rippin bro!!!

I followed his tutorials to tune my newest Betaflight build and my quad is flying amazingly well. 

The stock settings in Betaflight just didn't work well at all for me, I was having those low throttle wobbles and instability after flips and rolls on stock, but after following his tutorials the quad flies amazing now.

Awesome video. Thx for sharing this criss Rosser magic. Apart from that.. Damn Joshua. You became an incredible pilot. Back in the days I always watched your videos for the latest information and stuff but damn.. Now its even more enjoyable since you are absolutely killing it at your home spot. Much respect

Damn jb you are getting good.  👌

Nice! Rippin' hard these days!

#YODA .......... Thanks for all your info over the years Joshua....... kept me in the game for sure!

3:12 is a sweet shot!

I love your content!!!

for the Dynamic Notch Filter Tab, I don't have a Dynamic Notch Max  Hz but instead I have Dynamic Notch Filter Range it can only be set at AUTO, LOW, MED, & HIGH

I love this shit boyyy! Can't wait to get my quad flying Smoove too.

I put the same filter tune on my 110g 3 inch and heavy 3.5 inch.

Both of them fly amazing. I was trying all sorts of pid changes before and was a bit stumped... Now stock is nearly perfect for both.

I usually fly defaults..this is making me want do dive I to tuning since openpilot 👌

Good God this makes my fingers twitch and heart race...i can't think that quick lol

hey brother thanks for takeing the time to help me out yesterday for my BIRTHDAY ..josh i just will never know how u do all that you do ..Thank you so much for making this hobby accessible ,with out you i could of never done this hobby..Once again the  video was awesome thanks again....                         SANDYDOG_FPV

hfs. I mean, I knew you were getting better at free style but this looks really good.

PLZ bring back the old stick overlay

I still have cool motors with D up in the 60s and P in the 80's, getting scary :)

took my pid sliders basically to the moon and im very happy..need a good frame though..source1 is noise proof

hey Josh I just bought an ix20SE so I can fly mode 3 and I am going to love it.

Your flying has improved so much! Guess I need to start flying 3 packs per day to git gud ;P

You need a separate livestream channel, the announcement and countdown spots fill up my subscription feed.

I took my AOS5 v1 apart down to the frame, to begin a tune for the start of next season. Turns out I have been flying with a broken arm all summer. If it was not an 'A-arm' style build, it would have not been in the air at all. I'm glad I took the time to go through the first step. Even though, it probably could have gone on flying with no flight-ending failures, Chris's design kept it from failing, but with that fracture, I would have been chasing my tail trying to find what the resonance was coming from. 
Now. New arm. New Season. New Tune. 
Three months till spring here, can't wait for the new year! (yes, new year starts on May 1st, lol)

Hey Josh, what an improvement in a few years of practice! Excellent close proximity.

Thank you for all you do for the hobby. It's just such a shame that anyone getting into the hobby, can't because of the absolute evaporation of inventory available to buy. It's like a steakhouse with no steak.

thank god

Chris Rossers tunings tuts are awesome, very systematic and easy to understand and follow.

When chasing D gain you'll find one level is hot and another is safe. Turn on D-min and set the safe number to the low and the hot number to max.

Thank you for the practical walk-through, Joshua! Would you please let us know the gyro & D-term latencies estimated by Mark's XLS for your final filter settings?

Its the prop wash that I can't get rid of.

I hope that by followi g these steps u can find the cause of me mid-high trottle oscillations!

JB might not be Juicy but he's flying has been nice.

Clean build on a good frame.  Enjoi!

Clean build!

Yeah I was at 100 on p and 55 on d, but gunk I will just start over and reduce filters

 @ugpfpv361  I found P at about 75 and D at 45 is my sweet spot. with 150 FF. I reduced all filters apart from the D lowpass @ 100hz. cool motors after 5 packs

Yes I noticed that too. Big progress!

Good point. You know, after one gets to a certain level of ability, one realizes that 'proximity' skill is really what defines accomplished, smooth, all around captivating flight.

Huuu saludos 🖖 🤩👍👍👍👍👍👍👍

Yup

finally

THIS is what I felt I was missing when I wrote that comment on Chris’ channel Joshua! Dang I hope you read this, good work!

Don't have a black box but those filter settings work well on a micro.

Rosser is v good

Yup Rosser is the man! His video helped me get an annoying noise out of my tune.

When you talk about hitches or blips what do you mean?

i hate u.
😂 This is why I wait to watch. So I do not have to wait for the next part. One time I jump the gun, gotta sit on my hands. Being in the middle of repairs and builds, I have plenty to do. My gopro is temporarily out of commission, though, so I can't film anything. i hate u. 😂 Cheers JB!

great video

the day that the usb connector goes away and a more robust connection during the tuning process would be sweet. sure mostly my ham fingers, but haven't broken a usb conn on my phones; usually the cord wears out first...just beeching

Josh you have gotten way better at flying ever since your 3packs a day series. Just saying.🙌🔥👏
I'm very interested in trying what you're doing here on my build that you connected to your laptop at Rampage. It was the 5-inch player one with a iFlight H7 beast toothpick board which is 55 amp mine would really be pushing the limits though because I'm using it with 2206.5 2550 KV Tmotors on 4S. I've been flying it lately doing speed runs and it's working great with stock beta flight setup but I like pushing limits so let's see how it works... Looking forward to part two and possibly three 🗣️💯 
Also if you haven't already a link to those stick overlays would be awesome

When JB's test pack looks like my dream pack... 🤦‍♂️

If I tap like twice, it goes away. If I tap it a lot of times, will it count the total? Good stuff, appreciate you being there for us. Your skills are rocking now, bub.

Yo 👊😁

I followed these steps on a GEPRC mark 4 prebuilt(They somehow give me a prebuilt quad with no factory tune). But then I keep frying the left front motor when i was tuning D term, the other three are just fine and cool. I sent it back to their shop for repair all they did was to replace the motor and put tune in, then the quad was flying fine. I recently find a lot of prop wash on it so I kind wanna follow these steps and retune it again, i find out they have crazy amount of filter in their factory tune and pit loop time of only 1.6khz. So I raised the loop fz to 3.2(they have slower gyro on this one),and reduced to the filter setting by the recommendation of this video. Immediately I fired the left front motor again with a 360 row, I really couldn't figure out why It seems to act nomarl but keep frying the left front motor the moment i try a flip.

Very helpful video but I would like to see a video at least talking about what a freestyle cinematic 5 inch quad ideal tuning would be.

Dam your tune & flight was so fast & smooth it looked like the playback speed was sped up 1.5x! Oh and Is that a Lynchpin T-shirt?

When I watch you flying around your (beautiful) property, I just wonder how many quads you've lost in the top of those trees ... .

Can't frickin' waaaaiiiit to see thot rest of thyyys

better yet: I ain't not gonna wait no more for this second part no longer, maaaaaaan
(that's me trying to mock a Texan accent in writing btw^^)

This comment is not meant to sound like I'm bashing BetaFlight or Emu but the combination of FETtec FC/ KISS FC coupled with a FETtec ESC gave me results like this out of the box with very, very little change 🤷 
Again, not bashing it and not everyone can justify KISS/ FETtec but it is bloody good. 

The tune on this quad at the beginning looks mad though JB! Nice flying

Glad you like the content.

Hey brother, I just built a xl10 v5. It’s flying pretty good so far but I can’t figure out why it has low throttle shakes. When I get down low say to land it’ll shake a little. Thanks Joey! I enjoy the videos

There's tuning for performance and then there's tuning for longevity. Reliability can be built into either side of the spectrum but if you play chicken with the edge of performance envelope, it begins to become unreliable.
Tuning for performance shortens lifespans of components - make sure you can sustain the cash flow for that tuning. Ask any car tuners.
I think Betaflight presets lean towards longevity and reliability - easier on the wallet and increases flight time over bench time.
Looking forward to the rest of the series!

Does this work with ESP32 and MPU-9250 ?

Hello everyone!

I haven't heard anyone mention the fact that you can change PID profiles via the OSD.  Is there a reason you wouldn't want to have one "aggressive" profile when your quad's in good shape and then a second profile that you switch to when you crash and need to fly back home?  I'm guessing that's because some of the filter settings are independent of your PID profile?

As long as Joshua lives there, that fence will never get fixed. >.<
heheh :D

Hahaha, YouTube auto captions said you wanted to dial in your Vegans. Lol (P gains)

I heard the phone ringing and i checked  my phone  and my watch confused as hell

That stick overlay tho...

was it cooler when you dialled down to 1.4 multiplier?

How about switching to a different kind of props? How much do different props affect the tuning?

first off we love Joshuas videos and follow every word.So I heard you say tune on old props,my problem with that is if the props are worn or weighted differently from being worn or even knicked .It will make every prop different and screw up your tune.I get your reasoning but I believe you should start from perfection (as close as you can)as the props get old you will feel problems and know better when to replace.We would still be stuck on camera drones if it wasn't for Joshua.As it is we have about 20 succesful builds and many more prebuilts and we couldn't have done it without your help.My common sense says you might be wrong on this and since so many of us follow your every word please prove me wrong,lol   Thank-you

Does anyone know of a pid controller that will vary the voltage output rather than just cycle on and off. Thanks

Повреждаются экраны от солнца будте осторожны

Tmotor esc f55a pro II f3

What was the drone and build in this video? That thing is rippin.

the video result is BIAS, is either your PID better or your skill is better xD

Question. I have the seagull drone by eachine  if I crashed and had to replace one of the motors which motor would I replace it with. I have searched the internet and can not find the original. The closest is geprc 2004 2550kv or beta fpv 2004 3000kv. This would mean replacing all four if one was broken. Please advise on your recommendation. Enjoy your you tube videos very helpful. Keep up the good content.

Do you attach a microphone to your quad or something?

why the thumbs down? almost betting these same ppl thumbs down every video..even if they didnt push play🙄

The gyro filter I think is outside the PID profile. Realistically the reason I that most people don't want to think about switching they just want to fly.

And now a comparison between Emu Flight Stock Settings and this Tune, that would be interesting :) Emu Flight Stock is already really good.

When seeing the D-gains-first approach to tuning I wonder where I should stop. I must think about Bob Roogi's statements about how even moderate motor temperatures compromise power output.

why mr Joshua never give a chance for T-motor esc,,they are preety popular in south east asia nowdays

I have no gyro scaled in black box??? My Debug Mode tab is just empty, and even when I try to edit/add gyro scaled fields, they dont populate on the list to choose from??

No wires on top of the FC? I mean all my wires are tucked there..

I don't know if anyone has told you this, but I feel like your flying has really had a breakthrough lately. You've always been a good pilot in my eyes, but some of the moves in the first part of that video I've never seen you lace together. Great flying brother!

My quad (nazgul5) wobbles pretty good on the stock tune.(prop wash) Using 1100 6s and gopro3. Maybe its just a tad heavy? I am only running 1100 and not 1300 so I figured that would be about right. But as a newb I honestly have no clue. I have a video if anyone is interested in helping. (my last vid)

if your a yahoo, is he a google?

would certain motors or a type of esc  not like RPM filtering ? also when do you use RPM filtering also do you have an updated video on RPM filter setup 4,4 betaflight settings have changed since your last video  thank you God Bless

what a punk setup... flies freestyle like flying autonomously hahahahah

I'll be the judge on whether or not its easy.

What is the hitch Joshua is talking about sometimes? The motor noise on throttle punches? very small changes in stick control?

WHAT??  I thought high P and low D make the kwad more responsive?!?!?!?!

A single biquad isn‘t appropriate and most important a biquad causes overshoots. Thats why ctsnooze came up with PT2/3 filters and before that the bf defaults were set to two PT1‘s.

Sooo I cant get my pids to work, they just went poof an I cant tune or down if I download pre sets the pids don't do anything, yaw pitch an roll numbers aren't "lit up"

You were so nearly in the tree at 2:30… you had no idea where it was and then styled out of it into a power loop! 😂 (I only know this because I do that kind of thing all the time)

Nice job on these videos. In a couple areas you used the term "hitches" as a descriptive term (among others). I'm not sure what you meant by that or what you were pointing out. In that specific scene I saw what I interpreted as oscillations...but I'm not sure if that's what your were calling out. 
One bit of feedback... If when calling out items like this...would you be willing to use more accurate descriptive terms so we all know exactly what you are pointing out? 
Maybe what I'm asking for is difficult to explain.

can I change the prop pitch without changing the tune?

Please include tuning tips for toothpicks. I think 2.5 - 3.5 inch quads are the future.

Where can I buy some beat up props?

Yes but without this tune, and it would be interesting how good the EMU Flight stock settings are against the BF Tuned settings.

I think he did a video showing BF, EMU, and another one on this quad already right?

jk I think it was on the Roma F5

I put emu stock on a quad last week. I armed it and it hit my ceiling.

i'm working on motor temp sensors so we don't. have to guess anymore.

 @charlesmarseille123  Interesting. So we would get in-flight stator temperatures via ESC telemetry?

Three packs a day... it does work

And still looks touch trouble. Weres auto tune.

I had a vague sense that I might be going into that tree. Freestyle is all about "happy little accidents".

 @JoshuaBardwell  yeah I totally agree. There’s blind moves and then completely blind moves where you really don’t know where you’re going, just that something is there and you need to get away! Keep doing what you’re doing anyway, Joshua. I’ve been doing fpv for almost as long as you have and you’re one of the view channels that I still follow.

Exact same method applies.

how good the P works also depends on D, D does not really depend on P, especially if you are looking at prop wash and how much D you can give untill garbage happens. That is why you would tune D first.

Hi, there.  my MOTOR 1 is spinning as normal but with Errors. The more throttle I push, the bigger Error code appears. It is a fresh build, can it be a hardware issue?

If I use air mode - should I follow this tutorial with Air mode?  (not necessary Acro?)

KISS 🤷‍♂️

Quad sounds like it's in severe pain

Hi Joshua . Im building a new drone & im a beginner do i have to do this PID tune ?or the Flight Controller already have a preset ? Thank You

doesnt the master multiplier up the i-term to over 100?

JB you are a Yawhoo ... me too

those filter settings are also good for 4.4? thanks :)

Ok ok how much do you want for the quad.....name your price....lol😁 freakin awesome!!!!! It sounds like it wanted a little more thats how clean the motors sounded just a beast 🤌....and I'm serious.....how much for the quad .... " in my Joe Pesci voice" lol✌

Need to compare Chris' approach with UAV Tech's approach. I've just tuned an Apex with UAV techs, it flies really nice, I bumped up the master slider one notch and I like the feel of the increased I gain, but took it back down because he says to leave it at default. I will try tuning it again with Chris' approach on a new profile and compare them, but a video from you doing the same would be great too.

Hi Joshua,
Does this kind of tuning only work for the fast 5 inch drones, or also for the ChineWhoops, for example.

👍👀🇭🇷

I’m going to learn something YEAAAHHHHH!!! 😃😃😃😃😁❤️ Rosser is a dreamboat of technical brilliance, of course everyone knows who he is but the “Yahoo/suck it and see” approach to FPV tech works well too 👍. This message reads a little…gay…🤨 It’s not intentional..😏

completely unrelated, but I see you got a trampoline bed on your backyard, have you ever tried to crash a quad in it and then recover the flight mid bounce? that would make a fun challenge :D

what is the controller? is it better than the one from DJI? I want to get into FPV, haven't decided what I need yet

I’ve played with increasing pidsum_limit from the 50% default to 100% and I found no real advantage in pushing the pidloop any harder. Motor saturation is already a problem at 50% pidsum_limit, increasing to 100% will not improve anything really. I saw a comment by ctsnooze in some PR somewhere where he also corroborated this

Do you happen to have an Amazon affiliate link?

Wasn't there already like an auto-tune function somewhere....?!? 🤔
PID tuning getting easier always a good thing! <3

15:10 i love how u associated the better performance with just turning up the master slider and really it was dmin and raising pids cuz dmin sucks and is making ur quad fly worse it needs better tuning process or programing lol...plus ur d's go up when u turn off dmin so that also helped but yea nice quad its sound

I'd be interested in your comparison too man 👍

You're right. It does.

Right!?! Lol

I wouldn't. Props could and likely would shred the matt. That could cause the threading in it to unwind and whip springs around at high speeds. The whole thing is under significant tension.

 @graydi66y  yea, it would need to be a heavy drone and involve disarming while bouncing hahaha yes, it's a stupid idea!

According to Mark Spatz, the reduced pidsum limit was designed to help deal with iterm windup, which is now solved by iterm relax. So raising the pidsum limit allows the motors to go to saturation when needed, and doesn't have a downside. I don't know who's right because even if I tested all of my quads, that still wouldn't be as much research as is needed to draw a firm conclusion.

I'm surprised we haven't seen an auto tuning FC already, surely it can be done where a computer is analysing the blackbox data and making adjustments as you fly. I don't know, could be wrong!

INAV and Arducopter do this.

Turning up the master slider did turn up the PIDs. Same same.

juice attack 15:04

Is there any alternatives for the software you're using on your PC for Linux, or is the software packaged for Linux?

1

Is there a way to tune on a quad without a place to store black box, is there a way to plug in some memory thru micro usb or smth?

AFAIK, lifting pidsum limit is only necessary if your pidsum traces bottom-out in the tuning flight logs. Does this maybe give some overhead to help prevent motor saturation? I seem to remember reading an old PR that had some og devs commenting on the importance of this. EDIT: checked my logs and I am reaching default pidsum limit on snap flips and rolls on my final tune (before I pushed up the master it was fine though). SO I'm gonna retune with these cli commands entered.

What specs of this 5 inch FPV ?

I need all this info in a dumbed down version.

Lol it sounds a lot different

PART 2  ? JOSHUA

Try some super hard yaw moves, see if you can bring out the desyncs in those motors. I tried them on Fettec and NBD ESC with no luck. Flew great till i tuned it and jammed the yaw stick.

I still can't see what the "hitch" was. I wish I knew what to look for when assessing things. For me, unless the thing is wobbling like a bowl of jello, I don't know what I'm looking for.

I really like this way of PID tuning, a lot of tutorials on pidtuning are basically "I feel I need to up/lower X based on how I feel the quad should move. Just avoid hot motors". Which in all honestly is pretty useless metric seeing as a viewer like myself can't feel the changes by watching a video, let alone have the feeling to change certain value without it being just a whole lot of blind trail and error. And at that point is such a tutorial really useful?

This data driven way of PID tuning is quite useful as you remove most of the guess work and don't need to base it on feeling alone.

Science is literally just yahoos trying something seeing what happened then writing about it🤷🏼‍♂️😅

JB don't you have a degree in EE, though? Lol

Noob question: When adjusting the master multiplier how do you know if it is "too far"?

Serious but silly question: I fly in the desert, so my motors are hot to the touch before I even plug in my first battery. Should I even care about my motor temps while tuning? Should I even be tuning?

I'd like to try tuning my new build like this but im still a newer pilot and im having an issue where when i punch the throttle it yaws to the left. I dont know if i can tune this way with that currently. I think i'll just cause a crash.

is it possible not to have any wires running over the fc. how is that ?

Wait what?! How did you hall gimbal overlay?? :O

First?  ; )

Yes look up the device named Openlager

I find it to be an issue mainly with feedforward. I have FF gains of 300+ quite often and smack into the pidsum limit 😋

Problem is you can only make it so dumb without making it useless. Rosser's guide is about as dumb as it can get.

 @JoshuaBardwell  Thanks! I'm looking into what everything means. With d shot and other terms I'm not understanding. Your old vids are helping out alot too.

It’s a process bro, you’ll get there. Just keep at it!

https://www.google.com/search?q=joshua+bardwell+chris+rosser+pid+tune&rlz=1C1CHFX_enUS570US570&oq=joshua+bardwell+chris+rosser+pid+tune&aqs=chrome..69i57j33i160j33i299.3592j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8

There are samples of the new Imperial motors which are about 3 weeks away from delivery at FPVCycle. They aren't the older Emeralds that had the desync problems. I have been running them for a couple weeks and they are flawless.

 @JoshuaBardwell  The bell swapped ones also appear to be just fine, so that should be a straightforward fix as well... but for the effort to source those, that's why we're getting new full motors

 @JoshuaBardwell  I was running the Imperials. Hopefully Bob actually comes through with the new bells. I message him and he told me more than once times he would put me on a list for new bells/motors when a fix was found. Almost about given up ever hearing back from him again....

It kind of twitched.

That’s why you need the blackbox. That’s also how it should be done from Betaflight tuning guide.

When your quad freaks the F out.   Lol,    
Most of us fly and tune by feel

 @YotaGuy_Kyle  lol ok but i didn't notice his quad freaking out.

If your motor enamel gets hot enough it will burn and the motor will be ruined. Motor temp matters.

For me, a yaw when punching the throttle is me being clumsy on the sticks and blipping the throttle at an angle.

 @brutus1974  yea Saldly that's the only thing I've seen people say online but there's spring tension on my yaw stick and not on throttle, and it does it every time.  Not sure what it is yet.

have it running uinder the esc aka the bottom of the stack

He mentioned it in an older video, but it’s a video overlay that is generated from black box logs im pretty sure

 @fishiecracker  ah i see thankyou, hopefully if  joshua gets some time free he can verify this for me :') ill scan in the meantime haha 🤟

Is it bad that I can easily come up with half a dozen people who are in unrelated fields who are better at this?
To be fair, Chris is awesome, and doing a great job with the FEA V&V and making useful stuff happen... but there are people who haven't spent time producing youtube content who do it better

Can you link to the disagreement from kevin, emuflight dev? Would be interesting to hear his thoughts to.

Love your videos.   Great information,  well thought out and well presented, but when I hear you say 'pid' instead of Pee Eye Dee  it drives me crazy.  :-)   

When you talk about the speed of a motor you don''t call it the  erpem..... 
when you talk about the command line interface you don't refer to it as the klie.... 
when you talk about  electronic speed controllers, you don't call 'em esks....
so why on earth would you refer to the proportional,-integral-derivative control as the pid?   

Oh, I get it.... some abbreviations are spoken as words.... SCUBA, LASER, and RADAR come to mind, but Three Letter Abbreviations AKA TLAs, (not tlahs)  are almost always spoken as three letters.   In most cases, TLAs are not acronyms (abbreviations that are spoken as words) but they are usually initialisms ( all the letters are pronounced as the names of letters ).   In fact, the only TLA that I can think of that is actually an acronym is CAT as in CAT Scan.     Anyway.... 

Every time I watch one of your videos,  I DO learn something, and because of that, I'll continue to watch your stuff and continue to learn stuff nearly every day.   That said, every time I hear you say 'pid', it's like nails on a chalkboard.  :-)

Keep up the great work and thanks for what you do...

at 8:00 your analyzer shows noise all the way to  100% throttle. Mine stops showing noise above 60% throttle? why would that be?

Is PID tuning needed for long range, more/less efficient, …..? I fly a 7 inch long range quad. What should I do?

Do I have to pid tune I’m new to fpv an I keep hearing pid tuning is mandatory but a lot of the information being spoke on has me lost. I’m just curious if beta flight stock pid tuning is ok for someone starting out

Can you disarm if your quad starts to "flyaway"?

10 years in this hobby and I still don't understand it. No one person in this hobby can explain tuning in a simple manner...

What does Kevin disagree with?

Also, I think marks tuning method is much easier.

Joshua, you know people at DJI. Why don't you send them a link to these VIDs so that they can fix the GOD DAMN PID TUNING ON THE DJI FPV DRONE. Sorry, this makes me a tad emotional. ;-)

Yup, thanks for sharing Chris' info. An important thing to remember is that betaflight defaults are intended for a 550/650g 4s build carrying a gopro... So yes for a heavier build it is advised that you increase the master.... For a lighter 5inch builds, its recommended you decrease the master... At least to start with.

What do you think why other beta devs don't like to enable sliders? They would rather use the table.

Yeah, I'm just going to quit FPV =/  2+ years with my TinyHawk and I have fun but I just can't learn all the protocols and frequencies and boards and acronyms and now resonances and filtering...  FPV completely shattered any illusion of my intelligence.  I figure if I were smart enough, I'd be flying a 5-inch by now.

Hard to say what to think of the tune you're ending up with.
I wanna see it in strong, gusty winds flying straight looking for vibrations at the horizon.
That's where a tune makes or breaks it for me... ;)

Why can’t we have a program that looks at the log and just tells you the pids based on math?  I’m sure someone can write this.  Ardupilot has auto-tune after all.

Your video is so shooort :( dangit

Holy shit, I learned how to fly on Chris' plot, in the simulator Liftoff. Didn't even know this was a real place. I was really proud when I managed to get into the shed for the first time!

Step 1: Flash Emuflight 
Step 2: Select a preset that closely suits your build 
Step 3: Its 90% almost perfect 
Step 4: GO FLY!

was that a tortoise ringtone?

That was very nice flying.

That's always true. But a person who is 6/10 at knowledge and 9/10 at teaching is better than someone who's 9/10 at knowledge and 2/10 at teaching.

 @JoshuaBardwell  That's exactly it, and why my content isn't in this area - I just can't put explanations at the right level, it's just middle school or grad school, whereas you, Mark, and Chris do a fantastic job of that.
Being able to make troubleshooting seem logical and well-ordered, that's why you're full time.  Plain and simple, you make this sport accessible to not complete nerds.  It's arguably insane that Chris can actually make finite element analysis VV&A something that can actually be a popular discussion topic, which is crazy.  The discussions I've had as an output of that, including some with Chris, have been intensely enlightening as well.
I guess I'm grumpy about how much I'll be trying to put out fires in a few groups and discords with people who are following about 80% of this method and having all sorts of problems with it.  No intention of gatekeeping on this, but there will be some growing pains with getting all of that work, and SliderGate was kinda an extension of that.

He feels the biquad is inferior to basically all the other available options.

You didn't go to 100% throttle during the flight.

 @JoshuaBardwell  surely not 😆

you got 2 ends to that ladder: efficiency, control.
the higher the d gains, the higher the control, the higher the variations of motor output, the higher the energy consumption. think of it as stop and go traffic in a car.

Just fly it.

No. Ignore pid tuning and just learn to fly.

Yes. But it may be damaged in the fall is the only concern.

 @JoshuaBardwell  Thank you

Kevin commented that the use of Biquad had problems and he thinks stacked PT1 or some other types of filters that are unique to Emu are better. BF devs also moved away from Biquad since the default filters are PT1. I asked Chris about this and he gave some arguments why Biquad was his preference. So I don't think there's a right or wrong answer here but I have to acknowledge the controversy.

Mark's tuning method IMO has fewer steps but is less deterministic than Chris's, so Mark's may be harder for someone who isn't an expert in BB analysis to follow.

 @JoshuaBardwell  ah, that makes sense. 

In terms of marks method, you don't need BBL at all..., unless you are talking about something else.

Pd balance to the left until you have bounce-back, then back off.

PD gain up until you have trilling, then back off.

Push FF up until it feels right.

Doesn't get much easier than that. Most people will be fine just pushing the filter sliders, otherwise a throttle sweep and pid toolbox to determine what is safe.

What makes you think they listen to me. They are a multi billion dollar company. Even though I have the ear of a few people, they are tiny tiny cogs in a giant machine.

*slips further into depression*

Thanks for the info! Any tips for a 4s 2.5inch? Hard flutter on little throttle input

Thanks for the info! Any tips for a 4s 2.5inch? Hard flutter on little throttle input

 @LuxGamer16  sorry, don't know much about tuning. Though I know you can turn down the master or P&D sliders a fair bit on smaller lighter builds.

 @LuxGamer16  Turning off d-min did an 80% of job for me.

You hit a point where sliders get you 95% of the way there.  If you're tuning for that last bit to really dial it in, then entering exact numbers and deviating is just fine.  Sliders are there to save time, not be the final answer for somebody who needs to extract that last few percent of performance.

 @tehllama42  ah got it. Cool! Thanks!

Most of them do sliders extensively.

Don't get discouraged. You don't need to do this stuff. Just go fly and have fun.

 @JoshuaBardwell  flying this thing has really been the most enjoyable thing I've ever done and I never would have even been able to arm it without you. ;)  It's just such a tall mountain to climb, and the summit is packed with KIDS!!!  =P

Ardupilot isn't flying a hard driving acro quad. And anyway, how well does its auto tune actually work? Betaflight has had auto tune before and it didn't work.

 @JoshuaBardwell  ardupilot autotune works well for camera drones, not acro drones.   But my point is couldn’t there be a program that looks at the betaflight log and then recommends PID sets for betaflight users.

This is Bardwell's house lmao. Liftoff literally has his name in the title lol

but can it beat falcoX? oO

Meh not that good of a tune… still saw some d wobbles in your “this is the tune I end up with” flight

HAHA one more thing Joshua:
Of course we want to tune around all our mechanical problems, otherwise we could just spend more money and buy a soundly built quad with no issues in the first place, right... =P

i got balked at for over a year so far for pouring the D on when tuning peoples builds.  his advice is basically how i tune my quads and other peoples quads... the mechanical soundness of the craft is a wildcard when dealing with ppl via email.

There's no such thing as a tune that has zero d wobbles. Aggressive flying can always bring it out. Regardless, if you have a better method more power to you let's see it :-)

Yeah but it's a losing game. I mean, if you're stuck in the desert and you have to limp to civilization on a sprained ankle or die, then do it. If you have a broken quad with zero ability to repair it, then tune around it. But it's going to fly like shit.

i bet if you have a car with janky suspension, you put two pillows under your butt and call it a fix

That's why whenever somebody says, "Can I copy your PIDs," the answer is not necessarily yes, even if you copied my parts list.

