When I was a kid tinkering with electronics I "discovered" the concept of 4 diodes arranged such that no matter how I hooked up a battery to a project I would always get the polarity right and not destroy anything. I though I had the million dollar idea and wondered why no one hadn't thought of it already...

As an electroboom subscriber, i was very confused when you had 4 capacitors connected on the screen and none of them had blown up yet

Totally outside the scope of this video, I will just say how cool it is to see traditional draftwork done so well.
Being able to share one's mind through clear words and clear illustration is becoming a lost art. It shows a respect for one's audience and for oneself. I thank you.

"For safety reasons..."


Electroboom laughs loudly

When you go above 10A these things start looking real good. Above 25A, especially for naturally cooled devices, Ideal diodes/ active rectification is almost a must have.

The most impressive thing about this video is your penmanship.

Now eagerly waiting for the response video by electroboom . Its going to be too much fun  :D

This is really interesting! I've read that some modern cars have active rectification in their alternators to reduce power loss. This really makes sense with the low voltage and high currents in a car. 12-14V and 100Amps or more is not uncommon. The three phase windings in a car alternator have six diodes, and if they drop 0,6V each at 100A, that's a loss of 360 Watts to blow away with the cooling fan!

The FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUL BRIDGE RECTIFIER will never be replaced! 

... and great video as always👍👍

You are adding a lot of complexity to solve a problem that may not be an issue. But it’s interesting and educational to watch you do something in an unconventional manner.

Greatscott: This video is sponsored by altium designer
Also Greatscott: proceeds to use EasyEDA to make schematic

This is honestly the best channel on youtube for me. Educational, interesting and with a good sense of humour.... everything yt should be. Keep it up mate!

In this world of cost cutting, most devices are likely to stick with an FBR just because of the lower parts count and cheaper components. There are designs out there living off of single diode rectifiers still.

That reference to ElectroBoom is priceless XD

Quite interesting, I like your new method of less videos but high quality.  You seem very happy and relaxed- keep it up man!  As always, great video 🤙🏻

I designed an active full bridge rectifier 35 years ago for use in an x-ray machine. It was used in a low voltage sensing circuit where diode drops would have been unacceptable. These have been around a long time. By the way the original rectifiers were called commutators. All generators are really alternators, add a commutator instead of slip rings and you get DC instead of AC. There were giant synchronous commutators used in the old days to get high DC current for subway trains.

A million years ago, battery chargers used something called a "synchronous rectifier." A solenoid, driven by the magnetic field within the step-down transformer, moved a set of switch contacts back and forth in phase with the AC (hence "synchronous") and these contacts literally switched polarity of the AC connections between the transformer and the battery being charged. This provided the rectification. The whole thing, while noisy, was very efficient. There were no silicon diodes then.

The monobrow became kinda a meme with the FOOL BRIDSH RECTIFAIAH XD

Saw "sorry electroboom" and "greatscot" so had to click!!! Also would love to hear electroboom response on this 😂😆

I'm glad you rectified this situation.

been there done that.
the disappointment that it does exist was painful T-T

 @13100d  been there done that

Same here, when I "invented" the insertion sort routine. Simple, elegant -- goes faster and faster as it works its way through the list -- hard to believe no one had already thought of it!

​ @13100d almost every class that happened to me, I don't have a computer until college and no internet. I come with equations of projectile motion before I read it in my High school. At that point I thought if I continued the same when I will be in my masters or phd (I don't know exactly what people do at phd) I will think something that will not be there in my next class or so. 😂

 @13100d  It literally happens with all my ideas on electronics

Keep doing that! Once you "discover" something, the first you want to do is research. You never know, but you might hit a jackpot with something  someday, and be sure to document it along the way.

 @patrickjeromeobaldo2450  I continue to tinker with electronics 40+ years later but CNC machining is how I put food on the table. The knowledge of electronics I have put in my head over the years has served me well, can't tell you the number of times it has gotten me out of a potentially expensive repair bill on our equipment.

 @patrickjeromeobaldo2450  independently discovering something is its own jackpot. doesn't get any better than that, really.

I "discovered" the bridge rectifier as a kid too!  My grandad had a book about science that I loved but it was from the 1930s, and it showed a big mechanical rectifier and I thought "there must be a better way".  I wonder how many times the bridge rectifier has been independently discovered!

 @cooperised  You can add MY discovery @8 Years old as well  ;-)

​ @cooperised maybe a million

I once "discovered" that you could make Pascal's triangle 3D (a piramid). With all mathematics fully functional. You could even do 4D, but that won't look pretty on flat paper...

Reinventing something you didn't even know about is quite impressive though, especially as a kid. Maybe if you first research modern advancements, then apply that inventiveness, you might come up with something actually ground breaking!

Also, thinking for yourself is a valuable skill.

I once got an idea that if you can get the distance to four signal sources (synchronise clocks or smth and measure lag idk to get ditance) of known location you can calculate your location in a volume an then I went "Wait, how gps works?" And proceded to google it

Not enough designers use diodes in battery-powered equipment though, so don't knock yourself!

Could be worse, you come up with an actually good idea and not have the capacity to do anything with it. I came up with the idea of google glass 2 years before it was first released.

 @justaguycalledjosh  The novel Snow Crash came up with the idea of google glass about 20 years before you did, Josh. The novel also coined the term "Metaverse" which Facebook grabbed without credit.

i "discoverd" something i had like a full design plan i told that to my dad, he told me it's a relay

I had a similar experience with an H bridge for driving a brushed DC motor.

 @alexyoung6418  When I was in HS taking electronic for "shop" I put together a PWM circuit to drive small DC motor but I think the back emf and noise from the brushes would ultimately fry the power transistor. We've come a long way baby with today's motor drive circuits as you well know.

Damn…when I was a kid I learned ya don’t screw round inside the back of a tube tv ya found in the barn…which is now why I enjoy watching others do cool sht with electricity…

Same lol😂

Pcb design. Your initial load from charging your diode will trip your mosfet  through flux created.

But is it feasable, or even needed ? Fbr’s is mostly used for fairly small voltages and power draws, when you need more power you normally goes with a switching psu. I wouldn’t be concerned with the small voltage dropin the rectifier if I only need a low powered psu around ~20v 1a. I am only an amateur tho that dabbled with electronics over the years. Nice video tho. I am currently looking for a nice psu design that can be big enough to experiment with some of the zillions of “1” chip chinese Amps out there to convert some decent older passive speakers to active 🙂

 @mrdali67  for switching PSUs of things consuming a lot of power though, like PCs, you need PFC, and since one of the simplest forms of PFC is a DC to DC boost circuit, you still need a rectifier, preferably a FBR...

same

Because of the diodes' drop..

me too

I know the feeling. I come up with an idea, and then around a year later, see my ideas newly coming out of the prototype phase. I don't so thoroughly explain my ideas in comment threads anymore, nor do I use the same search engines for all my research anymore. They got powered armor and rail guns now. I'd rather not see any of my other ideas end up out there. Maybe the power plant one, but that's it. Electrogravetics would be great for everyone t have, but we all know that'll be weaponized as soon as the wrong person figures it out.

What is "I though"?

I know this feeling exactly! I once thought that I had just invented the relay. Back as a kid, I was building myself a simple RC-boat with a piece of styrofoam and some electronic circuits from an RC-Car. The boats motor had a different voltage rating than the rc car ones so i figured that I could just actuate a momentary switch with an electromagnetic coil. Boy was I proud of my invention…

 @christiansprojects-cgmanuf1426  Sometimes knowing a few basic principles like wrapping wire on a nail and hooking it up to a D battery can be the spark (pun) to a new idea. We are from an era where the phrase "No user serviceable parts inside" didn't exist, and if it did we took it as a challenge!

I had

You had one. Found it out yourself. Good work. Unfortunately someone worked it out before you.

Hii

Isn't that a wheat stone bridge?

 @DavidThomas-fb8bq  No, Wheatstone Bridge is usually 4 resistors balanced to null, used to measure resistance.

I thought I had the idea for wireless charging

i did the same with breadth first search and counting sorts lol. its a lot of fun to independently discover things in STEM even if its not new to the world

I did that with a 110c to 220v wiring plug, dc motors and the most modern space x rocketship.... I thought I invented then was like... Oh... That's how they're made... Lol. 110v to 220v adapter I still don't see though... So maybe I can use that..

uhh you kinda deserve the million dollars tho

I am amazed you guys (M/F) made these discoveries in your youth.  I never had exposure to this stuff, so I didn’t learn it until college.  I think you guys must be the best teachers, whether to kids or apprentices or colleagues, due to your joy of discovery.  I salute you! 🙋‍♂️
You must persevere and counteract all the sour, "wet blankets" of the world who blandly urinate on others' joy with derisive observations of obvious inefficiencies etc.

There are better solutions that avoid a double drop of 0.7 x 2 across the diodes. A big clamping diode across the battery that limits t he reverse voltage across the load to 0.7V is a start.

I have invented the wet water and a round wheel. I'll be rich!

Broo you have same story😂😂

i also had such idea and then realised it already exists💀

Thats why i think innovation is more of a "who has the idea first" than anything else, knowing that at some point people come to the same ideas lets me know that even if we have a genius or two in the history, theres always going to be another one at some point

I had a similar experience with a transistor connected improperly, noticed the earphone was producing a steady white noise, thought I made some big discovery that could be used for making different sound effects or random numbers..

You are not alone brother

I always say to myself when I come up with something "if an IDIOT like me can think of it, then it must be already invented" 😅

Did the same with floating logic gates and turning LEDs on when I moved close to them. Turns out it was just a bug and I wasn't actually smart. Fun times

That doesn’t make any sense.. for a battery you would only need one diode..

When I was a kid I did not understand diodes, but I did use my limited knowledge to invent transistors with a motor disconnecting a line

My excitement was to take a rectifier, wire it directly to mains regardless of its voltage rating, put too much load on it because I didn't know what I was doing there either, and then wait for it to explode.

Discoveries are fun, even if you're not the first.

That’s so much cooler than me as a kid just accidentally shocking myself so many times I decided it was safer to go outside and play with fire

As I discovered the series battery when i was probably 8 years old . I thought I was the first human to ever discover it then 2 years later , it just ended with a big disappointment .

Zamn, me feel that too! You can do more research and you might ended up found something extraordinary

And I'm here wondering why these aren't standard thing

THE RECTIFIER!

I have a similar story where I thought of the magnetically levitating train. I thought that's it'd be cool to have a levitating train that could go super fast due to no friction. This was when I was still in *elementary school*. I was devastated when I learned that the English got to it first with maglev.

How old were you when you discover that

Same here😂

but no one hadn't ain't not thought of it already...

😅😅😅😊😊

this EXACT thing happened to me my dad and my brother.... we all grew up to be engineers of some variety lol

Dude Yea u discovered the actual use of bridge rectifier to as reverse polarity protection

True me too

For me it was stream ciphers and lambda calculus. I was very bored as a young lad.

 @microcolonel  no kidding. I'm super impressed.

I will never forget when I got the PlayStation one. I kept telling my friends how awesome it is and that they should make PlayStation 2, next thing I know PlayStation 2 is already out.

 @adrianmach3608  Oopsie

The beauty of learning by discovery!

I seen it, but there's 0.7×2=1.4v or more voltage drop. For low voltages it is disadvantage.

If you basically loose half of your battery voltage with the forward voltage drop of the diode, it just does not make economic sense. A simple [+] sign indicating the polarity and 2 brain cells to figure out how to install the battery correctly solve that problem for most applications just fine.

 @ProtonOne11  You missed the point. To an 11 or 12 year old kid the "discovery" of a full wave bridge rectifier made from 4 discrete diodes was like gold. Yes, you loose a ton of voltage across the diodes, but again, you missed the point of the "discovery". As for 2 brain cells, maybe you should post again when you find them. Be well.

 @ProtonOne11  why two brain cells? why not three?

 @ProtonOne11  Yep, and yet I had to disassemble some equipment recently because it didn't state the polarity of the plug or if there was a rectifier built in. Usually with the barrel plugs the center will be positive, but not always and if the electronics inside are sensitive to voltage direction, it can be a problem.

You should know that Electroboom only uses small capacitors and never blows up big honkers like what he is using, as they would create an extremely lame fizz as the gases escape from a "pressure relief valve" at the top of the metal casing. This relief valve is the perforations you see on top.

​ @vinnysworkshop also those are expensive

I, too, am always impressed by how well-drawn his diagrams are... almost DIN - standards!

I was thinking that it was probably better for higher current loads as well. But what would be the use case for higher current ac to dc loads that this would make use of this?

 @D3M3NT3Dstrang3r  Welding machines, maybe? DC fast charging for cars definately.

 @D3M3NT3Dstrang3r  Any kind of power supply. Say you have a 120V server grade power supply with a 5kW output. It is not uncommon.

 @D3M3NT3Dstrang3r  Variable frequency drives need to first rectify the high current AC to DC, before chopping it back to AC. We're talking about hundreds of amps that need to be rectified and they require active rectifiers using IGBT's

Thanks for the feedback :-)

 @greatscottlab  Bro why don't you try for boost rectifier with same circuit? Add inductor & Capacitor at input side and store energy by operating lower left MOSFET to store energy and then open it to get added voltage of inductor and input supply

 @greatscottlab  So do you need a filter capacitor?

 @greatscottlab  
Why not use BJTs instead of mosfets ?
They are more resistant to transients and their collector-emitter voltage drop can be as low was 0.1V when not pushed to their limits.
I guess the base current driver is slightly more finicky and it incorporates a smoothed switch mode current supply... but that only consumes hundreds of times less current at just around one volt.

At a high enough current the mosfet will waste more power then a diode. The mosfet power loss is proportional to I squared, the diode power loss is proportional to I. For example, if the mosfet has an on resistance of 0.05ohms and the diode has a drop of 0.7volts, the mosfet will waste more power for currents higher than (0.7/0.05) = 14amps. So it depends on the component specs.

@Steve M  you are right but only if the simple constant forward voltage model for the diode is justified in your application. In reality, a diode follows an exponential curve when current increases. You can model that using a constant dynamic resistance when the forward voltage threshold is reached. In this slighlty more complex model, losses become also proportional to I^2. You can also see this by looking in a datasheet: the forward voltage depends on the current applied through the diode. I'm not familiar with such high current applications, and I'm not saying that it is what is happening in this case, but it might justify using good mosfet instead of diodes in some cases. You need to compare the dynamic resistance of the diode VS the ON resistance of the mosfet.

I am not so sure about that. If currents are higher than 30A and the on resistance of the mosfet is 25mohm, a classical rectifier becomes more efficient (0.025*30>0.7). In case of very high currents one probably needs to go to an IGBT bases rectifier.

This sems to me like an inverter rectifier idea

And above KA or MV range you can forget silicone ..

 @matikaevur6299  ever heard about paralleling of rectifiers? Atleast we do for 2 MW rating minimum, and can go up to 12MW

This is the most thing I have ever learnt from a comment section

Depends, I work with 1500A diodes. They are used in 3phase rectifier in locomotives. But yeah, in full power the thing becomes very decent heater :D

 @radekfylcka9029  locomotives are so cool, such elegant circuitry (a three phase rectifier on the generator leads and then a VFD, and that's it basically).

is the power like 50% wasted or is it just not getting to the device/project as power and if it was battery say  50% didn't make, is it still in the battery for use next time round the circuit as power?

your right I see them everywhere,

There is no such thing as an "ideal diode". Active rectification is not the answer.

@Christopher Grant ordinary ones, sure, but there are plenty of GTO variants like the Integrated Gate Commutated Thyristor that still see use.

and not to forget the metal rectifiers used in high current applications

Mmm, so useful in welders, I guess?

Yep, pretty much all the high power VFDs I was trained on (all above 90kW, up to 500kW) used mosfets and special control circuits which served as the rectifier.

Or PoE, because you want to use every Watt it can supply

One use is for rectifying 3 phase electricity for power hungry stuff. A VFD motor driver used one for rectifying 480V 3 phase at up to 120A per phase. At full power it would have had 6 diodes drawing 84W a piece at 0.7V voltage drop. Compare it to several milivolts voltage drop. ❤

Surely it is the voltage that matters, not the current. The bridge rectifier has a fixed voltage drop of around half a volt, so use it to rectify say 3v and you are dropping more than 15%, but at 300v it is well under 1% regardless of current. For the active rectifier it is ohmic and the losses increase with current.

 @john_hind  that's definitely part of the equation, but consider that as you go up in voltage you need a diode with higher reverse breakdown, and those also have higher forward voltage. So between like 0V and 50V it's not very linear, but above that the forward voltage goes up with reverse breakdown, and eventually you're having to just stack diodes in series, and at that point it is definitely linear again.

Besides that, as current increases, so does heat dissipation, so (as hinted earlier in this thread) the decision to use something like this may be less about the percentage efficiency and more about whether you can avoid putting in a heat sink and fan. The heat generation is going to relate directly to the current and not at all the voltage.

You're right to be a little confused because it's not explained very clearly, but also, the simple models we're taught are a little too simple as well. I think the truth presented here is at least as accurate.

 @john_hind  Depends of course on component used, but I guess the dynamic resistance of rectifier diodes is comparable to the Rds,on of high efficiency mosfet so you still have a huge efficiency gain from removing the power dissipation of high current on the voltage drop of the diode. But I guess it depends heavily on the application.

 @john_hind  Just going off of the results pointing to them being more efficient with higher current loads. Im sure there are tradeoff there always are.

Active rectification looking "good" has more to do with voltage than current. For example, the 12V to ~1V DC-DC converter in every modern computer's motherboard that powers the CPU would at best be about 70% efficient if it had to use a diode as the output rectifier simply because even the best modern low-voltage, high-current Schottky diodes will drop around 0.4V and that's a substantial portion of the output voltage. These days, those converters exclusively use active rectification. It also helps that low voltage MOSFETs are much better suited for active rectification than high-voltage MOSFETs and the circuitry for driving a low-side active rectifier (which that circuit uses) is much cheaper than a high-side rectifier. This is why the 2206 in the video even exists, it has a much simpler driving circuit than the 2208.

AC mains, even in the USA, is at least about 120V and diodes used for it tend to drop between 0.6V and 1.1V. Even with two diodes, that's a much smaller percentage of the voltage than in the above example. ATX power supplies almost never use active rectification on any of the high voltage sides. The few that have active rectifiers in the AC input are far more expensive than similarly rated standard efficiency power supplies and that's for a relatively small efficiency improvement. Even then, those power supplies use a totem-pole converter with silicon carbide or gallium nitride MOSFETs, not a silicon MOSFET H-bridge followed by a boost PFC circuit. A large part of their still relatively small efficiency gain is the fact that they eliminated the boost circuit's output rectifier completely instead of just going to active rectification.

And there are still giant tubes in the radio towers :-)

btw, you cannot drive MOSFET gates same deficiency for 10A and 25A, there no  magic. To flow more Amps in DS, you need more power in GS, so regular diodes in parallel still cost effective as AC rectifier. But but you are right in case of output circuits DC\DCs

​ @andreystya6644  If you meant that a MOSFET rated for 25A will require higher gate drive current than a smaller MOSFET rated at 10A, that's true if you want to switch them at the same frequency. That said, MOSFETs are typically used far below their max current rating and gate drive current isn't a big problem here unless you want extremely fast switching frequencies. AC-DC PFC circuits tend to use low enough switching frequencies that gate drive current isn't a big problem (usually less than 100KHz). Assuming you have a MOSFET rated at 25A or more, you don't need more gate drive current to conduct 25A than to conduct 10A with the same MOSFET if you have the MOSFET fully on. If you charge GS enough for DS to be fully on, DS will happily pass any current you want, even if you pass so much current that it heats up until it smokes and/or blows up.

GS is a capacitor. GS doesn't pass much DC current once it is charged up to the driver circuit's max voltage. Increasing the driving current going to GS allows you to switch it on and off faster by charging and discharging its capacitance faster, but that doesn't change how much current DS can conduct while on. Another consequence of GS being a capacitor is that the current used to charge it can be recovered and returned to the power source instead of being discharged to ground if using a resonant gate driver circuit. That's more expensive than a typical gate driver, further demonstrating that chasing every small improvement in power converter efficiency comes with exponentially increasing costs.

Also, silicon carbide and especially gallium nitride transistors have low gate capacitance and have much lower gate drive current requirements than similarly rated silicon transistors.

Looking forward to it :-)

 @greatscottlab  I'm waiting for Mehdi commented on this video

I can hear the burning sound effects😂

 @sudman08  heeeeeeieiieiieiiiiiiaieiiiieieieie

 @sudman08  😂

I think simplicity and efficiency are the big differences, but they're conceptually similar.

and "cost",    Diodes are a few cents each versus dozens of dollars,

That needs to be a video with high voltage and at least 1 spark gap somewhere for a ZAP + BOOM effect

@Electroboom

Is it posted on his reddit? He might respond in latity

Well, the good news is that in full wave 3 phase rectification using 6 diodes only 2 diodes (or no diodes) are conducting at any given time so, using your numbers the power being dissipated would be (0.6V X 2) X 100 Amps or 120 watts.  It doesn't really work that way though...  The bad news is that at high currents silicon rectifiers drop much more than 0.6 volts.  It is not uncommon to see 1.0 volt to 1.5 volts (look at the Vf curves on a 1N400X data sheet...) forward voltage drop across a silicon diode when conducting high currents - which is the case in most rectification systems because the conduction angle of the diodes is much less than 180 degrees (single phase) or 60 degrees in a 3 phase system.  Since the diodes are not conducting continuously, and the output current is a continuous 100 amps (in your example) it follows that when the diodes ARE conducting the peak current must be MUCH higher than 100 amps in order to provide an average 100 amp output current.  These high current pulses (near the maximum voltage of the AC input) result in a much higher RMS current in the rectifiers than you would expect which causes a lot more heating than you would expect - requiring a much larger diode than you would expect if you are to have a reliable circuit.

 @Vincent_Sullivan  Yes, you're right about how the diodes are conducting during the 3-phase cycle! My maths may fall apart but I still think there's a lot of losses in a 12V full wave rectifier with ordinary diodes, just the way you describe. :)

 @Vincent_Sullivan  1n4007 isn't exactly a high current diode. With appropriately overrated diodes there shouldn't be more than 0.7v drop, and much less with Schottky diodes. And your note of the diodes only conducting for a lower conduction angle isn't really relevant because that is the angle of each diode. The total angle is much larger. Newer alternators even use four phase setups which increase the total conduction angle even more. For a 100a output I would expect 200a diodes would work just fine. What would you think?

Girl winding is usually about 6 amps MAXIMUM x ~14 volt = ~84 watts heat in center ROTATING FIELD  ​ @Vincent_Sullivan 

Nice magic eye for your avatar. I love it. I forget the channel, but it reminds me of a video I watched the other day where somebody tried making a modern version of a magic eye using entirely too many LEDs, and a diffuser to soften the light. The end result looked nice, but it was far from practical. And I'm sure some Chinese place has already made some janky LED based magic eyes ages ago.

using a wheelchair is a massive power loss. 4 wheels are inherently and physically unstable and wasteful

Fool bridge rectified

Is that the "joke"? Fool instead of full? Wow, that's lame :)

It will do and it has!
Replaced by this active rectifier, otherwise known as a "Fuller Bridge Rectifier"

 @MostlyPennyCat  nah, active rectifier is like a german building a smg for the first time: full of failsafes, attuned parts, full of ornaments, costs a lot of money and can only be made few at a time. Then come some guy in a shed, slap some tubes together, weld some parts and a bit of spit, and then you have a gun that does the same thing, costs less, and can be made by the millions.

Same scenario. We already solved the whole voltage drop power loss nonsense with PWM, by making the currents only active 15 to 50% of the full frequency. The only applications that bothers with active rectifiers are things that need to worry about mosfet self destruct due to desynchronization. And only in specific cases due to cost and extra risk of malfunction.

Yeah boom baby boom!

a synchronous bridge rectifier IS a full bridge duh.

yes electroboom

FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUL BRIDGE Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor
is a good replacement.👍👍

elctrobom

What's Mehdi's fascination with the full bridge rectifier? I never heard him explain it.

ElectroBoom lol

you know you're a geek right
like me hahaha no going back
Once you've gone Wack hahaha

No it wont because MOSFETs go short circuit between D-S, then you get AC across electrolytic...BOOM!

There is no such thing as a full bridge rectifier. The name is bridge rectifier which is performing full wave rectification .

FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUL BRIDGE IDEAL DIODE !!!!

Poor efficiency and power factor are issues that very much need to be dealt with as the load increases. Industrially, power companies will fine businesses that have poor power factor, and inefficiency just straight up cost money that many businesses can't really afford with the ever increasing energy prices.

Even Altium is amazing, for the most hobbists like us paying for an expensiiiiiive altium license it's not worth it tho

irony

Spotted !

That's how advertising works...

Ouch :(

Funnily enough single diode is still more efficient.  If you ignore the terrible power factor due to the current spike from the capacitance at least.  So, if you can get away with it, it's worth considering.

Interestingly, many switch mode power supplies use a single diode on their secondary for exactly this reason.  It's AC from the coil, but they only use half of it.

Ah, the single diode garbridge rectifier!

Most cheap things use just a single diode for ac-dc conversion.

OTOH, perfect is the enemy of the good. If a single diode rectifier is sufficient, anything better is a waste.

Yeah, but tomorrow this will be a no brainer solution.

There are designs out there living off of single diode rectifiers still.

There's also the third type -- a full-wave rectifier with the voltage-drop of a single diode. Millions in use worldwide, but I'm sure their installed base isn't growing by much, if anything.
 
Sure, it does need a transformer with a centertapped secondary, but, it does work!

This will be a thing once the price comes down, the full circuit comes in a small FBR size package and not least, when it becomes mandated.

1% less loss might not seem like a huge deal, but over the span of a year this is a lot of energy if you multiply with the number of units the manufacturer produces.

When some manufacturer comes up with it all in a single chip for pennies, that's when it will take off.
Remember when someone produced a little bit of plastic with 741 on it?

@Christopher Grant It does, the quality of the parts has to be guaranteed and the more components the more chance of a bad connection or dry joint. Yes they can build complicated circuits to last like in the space industry where every milliamp counts and they have to last a long time in hostile environments, but they are not cheap and not for normal consumption.

Not to mention less point of failure.

It's FWBR.

Nothing new here. FBR are cheap, so they will continue to be used. All electronics circuits are a "ballpark" calculation anyway.

Single diode rectifier is safer in lots of scenarios

This looks like an over complicated solution, that increases the amount of components considerably and there fore the reliability. Plus when it goes wrong a problem to repair. FBR's have stood the test of time. They keep trying to redesign the wheel but can not get anything better.

Just wait until active rectifier IC's are built.
People said the same thing about microprocessors, now you can buy them for 5 cents.

They could even implement self-soft-starting rectifiers with such a system.

 @TauCu  Once they're a single component you can buy for 1/10th of a cent in quantities of a million sure, but the company making a cheap NiCd battery charger will probably still opt for the single diode just for cost reduction. At the end of the day, not every device needs the extra efficiency for the added cost just as not every device needs a microprocessor.

​ @TauCu  where can you buy a microprocessor for 5 cents?

@Christopher Grant  Yes there are times where you need the complexity, but on most things the simpler they are the more reliable they are. It is a known fact the more components you have the more chance of failure you have, and to make sure everything is at the right quality to last for the design life of the machine or gadget increases the costs.

Basicly higher efficiency not always better.

Now that there's efficiency and power factor laws(A very good thing), this stuff is more practical.  Really almost no devices should still be rectifying anything though now that there's USB-PD, just leave it to the power supply design specialists, who can do it cheaply because they probably have higher volumes than your product.

 @EternityForest  Efficiency and power factor laws? Where? I've never seen such a thing here in the US. 

Even if those laws exist or come into existence, this doesn't mean some Chinese company won't produce a cheaper version of your product that used a single diode and does the same job for half the price, which some people will definitely end up buying. 

Not every device is, can be, or should be powered via USB, and devices which do not support the Power Delivery standards won't just disappear overnight either. If it gets widely adopted it will still take a long time for everything else to get mostly phased out anyways, in the mean time the single diode will continue to live.

 @EternityForest  Id wager you have quite a few more outlets than PD bricks

Thanks :-)

R u a patreon

How is your comment 12 days old?
Were you able to attend to Stephen Hawking's party?

 @scienceteam9254  magic

 @scienceteam9254  his computers time and date are set in the future its a trick used to foul trail product software depending on the software it creates a invalid string error which stops the clock of the trial does not work in all cases but years ago it was common trick

I agree. These videos are high quality and entertaining.

Was there a time where scott came off as anything but chill?

Except that a commutator is used to periodically reverse the current, it is a type of switch, and is nothing like a rectifier. A commutator is the part in a DC brushed motor, where the brushes connect to the circuits or coils, as the motor turns, the next coil gets an opposing current to the previous one, and so it makes the motor work. It is not what you described here and does not do what you described here. What you described, is a bridge rectifier with extra components, and not a commutator.

 @dk6578  He is talking about Mechanical rectifiers... which are also known as commutators. Yes it is a part in a DC brushed motor but it IS a rectifier. "serving as a mechanical rectifier to convert the alternating current from the windings to unidirectional direct current in the external load circuit."

 @cpt-greene  All cars used to use such regulators. They were simply a couple of relays with carefully calibrated pull-in voltages, and these relays would switch on and off in response to the output of the alternator, which then switched resistors in and out of the field coil circuit of the alternator, thus more or less regulating the voltage.

 @ScottGrammer  our very old Ford tractor had one of those that I had to replace. The modern one uses transistors, obviously. Same principle though.

 @ScottGrammer  
They used generators, not alternators.

 @ScottGrammer  I think you are referring to the mechanical voltage regulators which were used in the 30's to 50's to control DYNAMOs.

An aircraft-type motor commutator is almost silent, with far longer life and probably just as efficient. But too expensive for a home charger.

 @jmi5969  Yes, and there was no rotating component on the battery charger for this to work.

Interesting... But I wonder what would be the load life of such switches?

 @elgranlunatiko  Not long. They proved unreliable and the switch contacts had to be filed often. But, we're talking about the 1930's, so the only other option was huge, expensive, and grossly inefficient oxide rectifiers.

If you go watch some of DiodeGoneWild charger autopsy videos, one of the many chargers had a synchronous rectifier.

 @omarrama92  I'll check it out.

Since switch contacts can arc, they generate some heat and wear out over time. Not forgetting the mechanical losses in the system will also contribute to power losses.

 @TechBuild  If they could time the whole thing so the switchover happens during the zero crossing, you'd think that would improve reliability. 

That said I'm glad we have solid state electronics. It was the wild west back then!

 @TechBuild  Yes.

Brush and collector system in the typical DC brush motor is also an example of mechanical rectifier.

I heard early tube car radios used a similar scheme. Fran Blanche demonstrated a similar function in an old (Lionel?) toy train.

Twenty five years ago, I retired from the marines, working aviation electronics.  We had a number of systems from the 30's and 40's that still operated on such systems in the nineties, when I retired, mostly on the C-130's high power radio systems.  I'd forgotten about them till I read your post, thanks.

You mean 20 years ago aruound the year 2000 .
The very older 1950 ones were literal bricks and they could melt and catch fire because of the tar inside them.

 @shahabmos5130  tar!!??   Splain me about the tar, Lucy.

sounds very sparky

 @herauthon  You're right.

So cool

good job Old timer hahaha

A Rotary transformer was another name for them they also had a relay to switch polarity in case it fellbout of phase.
Power companies in those days generated whatever voltage and frequency they wanted so there were plants to equalise and convert.

 @arfeausmutt9884  I wonder if you're talking about a dynamotor? A motor that drives a generator or alternator? It doesn't sound quite like the same thing I was speaking of, which essentially was just a primitive mechanical rectifier. I might be misunderstanding you, my apologies if so.

I remember this company made a VLF Hipot for cable testing that did something similar. It made HVDC and used some contacts and a motor and mimicked an AC sinusoidial power output. Interesting

Solenoids!?!    Wow, the chatter must've been something else!
Design is always about the trades, isn't it?

Hmm i can see a 5 prong relay with a magnet and coil around it that way the the polarity change would change the output side of the relay so it would only need 2 relays to make it work.

This is where the rivalry starts 😂

 @FlaresLAB  
start the intro....
😂😂😂😂

Indeed, and I propose more! What devilish response would come from ElectroBoom!   Phantom  Add that into your comment mah dud ! 😂

 @diegoyonamine8943  nahhhh you thought it so gonna let you keep that response!! Also can't wait for electrosboom response he he ^^. I don't usually eat this but umm gets up and starts making pop corn this gonna be gooooood!!! ^^

No doubt he'll show up in the comments eventually

He may not spark joy because this has no sparks.

For very low AC voltages such as e.g. the 6V of a bicycle dynamo, an active rectifier is absolutely necessary to achieve sufficient efficiency in the rectification.

Your handwriting and drawing is beautiful and a real pleasure to watch. :-)

the older i get the more and more I like you videos. especially this one feels like a electrical circuit lab in uni. I kinda miss the labs, even though I am not good and I don't like working with  circuits. They ended up being a hobby for me.

Bro, your hand drawn demonstrations look fantastic.

I have been designing these active rectifier for a long time and they are amazing.....until the controller is destabilized for some reason. Over time, I learned that every attempt to throw it pulses, noise, etc would reveal any stability issues. 

The end result is a very high-current design with no need for a fan and many times, no need for a heat sink of any kind. Totally worth it.

Your videos are the best presentations of electronic concepts. I love the way you draw schematics & add written explanations to accompany your commentary. Many thanks

I think, through some sort of protection kept forward, you can try going for phase controlled conduction mode as well, which I believe is industrially done through IGBTs...

Man, you're really good at drawing lines and stuff

Many Hybrid and Electric vehicles make use of active rectification. The 3-phase bridge has a fair bit of work to do when you consider field oriented / space vector control  and then switching to regen on over-run. 🤔

I LIKE the presentation process of this video...your video segments are assembled in such a visual manner with the voiceover so well matched with the visual narrative that I could better understand. I am a very nontechnical individual with high curiosity but low technical knowledge. Your use of actual data sheets and highlighting the line with the specific element discussed is an example. THANKS so much.

I use bridge rectifiers a lot for compact polarity protection in low current applications, and also to exploit the 1v drop to avoid the need for regulation in some cases.

Pretty cool! As a former electronics engineer, I enjoyed watching this.

I've seen mosfets used in the output of some USB chargers as a diode replacement since those 1-3A loads are a significant loss across that component at those voltages. Pretty smart use of them.

I always marveled at the simplicity of the full-bridge rectifier.

Trap that a lot of people get into: rectifier with a capacitor and some load can draw current peaks easily reaching 7-8x the load current, a 10A rectifier will burn out on a 10A load, the better the smoothing the higher the current peaks

And I forgot, you're left handed. Super skills mr.

Im sending this video to electroboom's reddit😂

Must say the drawing and writing are a joy to look at. Thanks.

When I attended engineering school in the early 1970s we always called it a full wave bridge rectifier. I never heard it called a full bridge rectifier until fairly recently.

GREAT SCOTT! You're a GENIOUS, my guy!

very true!  I've been using mosfet rectification for my bike dynamo circuits for many years!

It might be useful for some applications, but definitely not "absolutely necessary". I use an old bicycle alternator to charge some LiPo batteries with a TP4056 charger, and all I needed were 4 schottky diodes salvaged from some power supplies' secondary side and a 470 microfarad capacitor to obtain smooth DC. I even needed to add a 5V LDO regulator, because at the 300-400 mA load I require, the voltage rises to more than 10 V after rectification, while riding at only 15-20 km/h (the alternator's rating is 6 V). Ironically, the voltage regulator wastes more power than the bridge recifier.
That being said, I would be interested in your circuit, because I would like to be able charge another battery, the charger of which requires 500mA at 5V to function properly (according to the manufacturer anyways). If I ride constantly at  a bit more than 20 km/h it might work, but that could wear out my old alternator (and my muscles) quickly.

 @antoineguilmain2754  You could use a buck converter instead of the LDO. A charger for the car cigarette lighter has one already with 5V regulator

You mean bike alternator we don't use bike dynamos anymore. Dynamo make dc

Thanks for this reaction. I was thinking how to apply this technology. For small windgenerators and motorbike generators.

meh

Regenerative breaking.

Dynamo generates DC and DC doesn't need rectification. Rectification is a process that applies to AC.

Alternators generate AC.

I charge my Phonefrom my bicycle dinamo .
And dont have a fancy rectifier. 
I use 4 diodes and a cap. 
And a step up / down converter. 
It's simple and effective. 
And the output is a usb connector. 
It even fits in a 3cm long electrical pvc pipe.

 @micheltbooltink  But the full wave rectifier goggles .7 volts that you can use!

@cat Absolutely, you just need to use MOSFETs with lower drive voltages, or use gate drivers that utilize a bootstrap circuit, which is a charge pump that will increase the gate-source voltage of a FET.

So did I. Using fast Shottkys is usual in PSU, getting the efficiency >85%. Active rectifiers lift it up to >90% or better. So, if you get an PSU with >90% efficiency, you can be sure to find active rectifiers for the output.

Finally!  Someone who actually understands how rectification systems work!  Trombo is 100% correct.  The larger the capacitor the shorter the conduction angle of the rectifiers and thus the higher the peak currents which means more heating than expected in the rectifiers.  My rule of thumb is for a full wave bridge with 10 amps of output current you need about a 30-35 amp rectifier.  If the circuit is fed by a transformer you also need a larger transformer than you would expect for the same reason.

 @Vincent_Sullivan  obviously, if I was taught anything by experiments, it's that to overspec absolutely everything possible. And of course, fuses.

 @Vincent_Sullivan  understanding is dangerous to the economy.
how is everyone meant to keep buying new products if theyre not designed to fail?

Yes, you would typically add a precharge circuit.   The precharge circuit puts a resistor in series with the capacitor bank.  Once the cap bank is at its normal operating potential you bypass the precharge resistor using another mosfet or a relay.  You can also add protective circuitry to your precharge circuit.  If the capacitor bank does not reach normal operating potential in a certain time, you shut down your active rectifier and display a fault.  This will prevent a catastrophic failure should your capacitor bank have a deteriorating capacitor.

 @Calliber50  softstart is a completely different thing from the current peaks caused by partial conduction. Essentially if your load is consuming 1A and you have enough filtering that the bridge only conducts 1/10th of the time (you're getting about 5% voltage ripple in that case) every second you consume a total of 1A*s, but since you conduct 1/10th of the time, so 0.1s, your average current during conduction is 1A*s/0.1s=10A, that's the average, the actual peak is even higer

​ @Calliber50  yep. sounds like that will work, but
youre better off putting your funds in a polymer film bank than a paper currency electrolytic toilet bank.

Thank you, David Lixenberg.

Sure about that? A 10x pulse should be high but ok if short enough. But trying to pull 10A through a 10A diode, I would be Very careful about designing the cooling of that, since it will likely be some 20-30watts of heat being generated

 @LunaticCharade  "should be" "will likely"

Actually peak load is real load + cap ESR + trace and wire impedance.
However, most diodes are designed to allow Pulse overloads without burning out. FET's also can handle high peaks.

I think that you are quite correct, this is because you could make a half-wave Bridge Rectifier - if this is sufficient for your project.

 @peterduxbury927  "this is because you could make a half-wave Bridge Rectifier"
A bridge is always a diamond shape (although it can be portrayed rectangular).  Think Wheatstone Bridge for example.   A center-tapped transformer can give full wave rectification with two diodes, but each winding is actually only half wave with one winding having current in the positive half cycle and the other winding current in the negative half cycle.  That's fairly common but I wonder about the presence of pulsating DC in each half of the secondary.

It's called 'full bridge' just through ignorance.

You can use LT4320 as well, it's way more simple and use (pretty much) the same components.
(it's for lower voltages thou)

You are a wonderful teacher. Much of what you did was above my level. However your presentation is delightful. The neatness and colours ...

Thank you so much for your teaching.

David Lixenberg

These broke into big inverter drives years back. For three phase high power you can twiddle the active switching in real time to minimize distortion on both sides. Also they let you run the drive backwards during braking. Turning high inertia loads into massive generators. I think ABB called it an ‘active front end’, A-B and Siemens have their own names for the same thing. Hella cool.

I know it’s a simple thing, but I’ve always loved your pen markups in the videos.

the purpose of an active rectifier is to overcome the nonideal rectification behavior of an individual diode. the MOSFET drivers are called ideal diodes when used for rectification.

Bro you are one my favourite you tube channel . I learn a lot from you. I when I need to learn how something works I go for your channel omg you rock my bro...keep up the good work...some of your old contents is pure gold. love you bro from Sri Lanka.

FBR may also be a better option in adverse thermal environments. You end up with less variation in output characteristics, which makes handling that variation safely much easier. Even with well-designed power supplies, you might be amazed how differently a device might act at -40C vs. at 85C

learned this new thing, thanks to GREAT 👍👍SCOTT !!

As industrial's sensor design, I use that from the last 11 years for being mandatory.
That little loss from rectifiers play a big role in some remote applications, specially when temperature is a problem.

Interesting... I never know about active rectifier before. It gives me new information.

I'm definitely starting to see more active rectifiers in the output stage of USB phone chargers, where they just used a single diode in the past. I guess this is where you would see the greatest efficiency benefit. These active rectifiers kind of remind me of the old fashioned mechanical rectifiers.

Nicely done fella. Look forward to see more great videos from you.

It's a great idea. i had this electronic rectifier in the early 90's to develop a high power SMPS. The biggest plus is that you can ramp the main Voltage slowly to avoid peaks at ramp-up and control the PFC. For high current very good.. for mainstream electronics too expensive

I am eagerly waiting for a Power Factor Correction circuit video!!!

Yeah, there is a slight problem with capacitive loads, but if you suddently start drawing several amps, you could face the exact same issue (aka accidentally building a bomb).
Also it's hard to have a very wide supported voltage range when making them.
Just like synchronous rectifiers that you can find at the output of very high efficiency switching power supplies, they are stuff you better don't mess with unless you really really know what you are doing. 
I know what I am doing enough to create my own reliable power supply, but I'd still not feel comfortable building this kind of things...

Interesting analysis.  I am a retired EE, and stumbled across one of your videos... Nice presentation, keep up the good videos...

I've used the mosfet approach to rectify the output from a bicycle hub dynamo to power a GPS tracker. Diodes would be too wasteful - it's only 6V at 3 Watt power max.

I'm still amazed at how neat your perf board wiring is.

Most full-bridge rectifier packages are built with simple silicon diodes with a high voltage drop - that's why when I built my 120VAC input lab power supply I assembled my own rectifier using Schottky diodes (MBR40200PT ASEMI TO-247/3P), which cut the voltage drop in ~half and increased efficiency significantly. Using a larger than needed size diode also helps with efficiency. I still like the simple diode solution because it's 'bulletproof'.

subbed for the ElectroBoom imitation.

With one observation ... that IC only starts to work at approximately 9v AC and can only handle up to around 72v AC , so it's not really usable with 110/230v AC and the 9v threshold is a bit of a pain if you want to use it on the secondary side of a transformer... it cuts quite a bit of the sine wave.  Last but not least, it's Linear / Analog now, so expensive...

 @mariushmedias  LT4320 is a fun but useless toy sadly. The high cost kills what few applications fit within its voltage window. It's also useless as a secondary-side SMPS rectifier due to the 400 Hz max frequency, if memory serves.

This is how HVDC converters work on the power grid! You take 3-phase AC, run it through a wye and a delta transformer to get 12 poles (6 pairs of phase). You then feed them to an active element, triggering at the right point. In the old days, it was mercury valves, then it moved to thyristors, and these days they're often IGBT (Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors). For HVDC applications, these are huge, dwarfing a human. Voltage differences of up to a million volts kinda needs some room. Modern designs use stacks of them for each pole, switched at different times to match sine waves, minimizing ripple in magnitude and raising it in frequency, so it can be filtered with smaller capacitors + inductors. The 3.4 GW Pacific Intertie uses thyristors now, originally mercury valves when it was placed into service in 1970 (originally at 1.4 GW). The newer Transbay link under San Francisci bay uses IGBTs. HVDC links between England and Europe, Tasmania and South Australia, US/Canada and US/Mexico. In some places, there are back-to-back pairs to isolate different AC grids from each other; Japan has 4 like this, with 60 Hz on one side and 50 Hz on the other. It's the same circuitry on each side, whether used as an inverter or an AC-DC converter. Which direction the power flows comes down to the phase angle of the triggering signals. So solar and wind use them as inverters, while grid batteries use them in both modes.

 @BobKerns4111  oh yeah. HVDC is hell of cool! Crazy phase shift TX’s and massive multi pulse stuff, and the voltages, Jesus wept the voltages. I mean I get cagey working up to 5kvac, but it’s still just AC. And DC had its own quirks and foibles, but, getting up to 100’s of KV? Auuuugh that is a job for someone with more guts (and brains) than me. 

Cool shit though. Thx for the info!

Wouldn't a MOSFET behave just as badly in extreme temperatures?

@Christopher Grant sorry for the delay. Sourcing AC to sensors directly isn't common, except from sensors with NO/NC to be used in cheap chinese machinery (and we produce those, because of our clients' needs).
Anyway those aren't critical.
But we sell sensors used in laboratories where temperature and humidity fluctuations are a big problem (turtle eggs for example, are very sensible to those controls and a 2°C fast fluctuate can represent the failure to some sensible species, so they told us).
I don't know two damns about those applications, but the specs we must follow for those stuff force us to design very thermally optimized products, and there is this kinda of losses play a big role.
And batteries aren't an option, because people simply forget about replacing it (or so they tell us when specifying).

PC power supply is a good application too.
They already use a center taped winding to reduce the diode losses but the remaining 4 ones are on a rather big radiator.

Electro boom enter the chat

I'm glad I'm not the only one who solders on nice, stained wooden desks haphazardly

The bridge rectifier chip makes for a more compact board design.  I however prefer four diodes which is cheaper and easier to upgrade if needed.

Your conclusion is right on!  I designed and built my own active rectifier system using comparators and mosfet drivers etc.  It worked extremely well, BUT, was only more efficient in a rather narrow range of power than a simple bridge rectifier.

7:31 The simplest and most likely answer may be to observe that a capacitor initially looks like a dead short.  I can't see the size of the caps you're using, but they look big enough that it will look like a short for long enough to blow that fuse.  This will be at least partly why the datasheet stipulates the use of a boost converter on the rectifier's output.  A naïve boost converter will present a mostly inductive load at its input, so there is no high initial inrush current in quite the same way.  Real boost converters will still have some C on their input in order to control EMC, but not as much as you're trying to load the rectifier with.


Beyond that, another possible answer, and this is just a guess, is that these IRF740 FETs are just too slow and chunky for this application.  As you noted, if a third FET is still partially conducting, you'll get a low impedance path that might look like enough of a short to blow the fuse.  There are two parameters worth looking at that might explain how that situation could arise, even with the TEA2208 controller: gate charge and conduction recovery time.  

As you probably know, 1) a FET's gate is a capacitor and 2) the gate voltage that matters is that relative to the FET's source pin (ie Vgs), which is not always ground.  Especially for the high side FETs, the controller has to be able to drive a sufficient Vgs relative to its own ground to turn it on†, but that voltage will be different from that relative to the controller's own ground.  So, usually, the controller needs a charge pump to get the required Vgs.  The current capacity of this charge pump affects how quickly it can turn the FET on and off, so a FET that stores more charge on its gate will take longer to switch.  Contrast the specs for the IRF740 with a better power FET like On Semi NTMFS5H600NL.

Recovery time is probably not relevant for a sinusoidal input at these frequencies, but it's worth remembering that a FET doesn't stop conducting immediately after Vgs goes away.

† "on" can mean "in linear/triode region" or "in saturation".  These terms are also used with bipolar transistors but, unhelpfully, their meanings are reversed.  For FETs used as switches, you want the smallest possible drop across the FET itself, which means operating the FET in its triode region (Vgs > Vt, Vds < Vgs-Vt, noting again that Vds the voltage across the channel, not relative to ground).

I learned something new , thanks scott

Interesting. I wasn't aware that NXP picked up my idea from 2008 (See Christian Rausch, "Greener Rectifier Loses The Diodes, Adds Power MOSFETs, Efficiency", EDN, 2008, October Issue) and made an integrated circuit from it.
😁

Really good video, thanks Scott!

Integrating a PFC with the active rectifier might make the increased complexity worth it. 
Yep, with 1A at mains input voltage you get 1W or 0.5-1% loss. It's usually good enough.

Your videos are like a masterclass with a lot of knowledge!!

I have never used this type of circuit in my designs for power supplies. Purely reactive components on the outputs will be difficult for this system to control. Capacitance across the output without any real restive impedance ( I know redundant) will cause instability in the active circuit. PFC will improve the ability to of the active rectifier to control the system, and this alone would limit me using this in my designs for most of my applications. As some have said in the comments, at higher currents this system would be very helpful in controlling the forward voltage drop power losses in a standard diode. However the costs in switching noise, board space and limited output options will relegate this to a narrow family of applications.

The explanations were very well done. I would suggest however the true name of this system is a Full Wave Bridge rectifier, the other option is a Half Wave rectifier.

I'm jealous of your channel name. Very clever.

I think with the capacitors fully charged, and when the MOSFETs in a bridge start to open, you have higher voltage  on DC side an lower voltage on AC side. That makes a path for capacitors to discharge. So all the process is actually pumping/draining the capacitors. You still need  a diode, to prevent that backflow.

Sigue siendo un rectificador de onda completa de estado sólido y semiconductor, no deja de serlo.

Interesting to see how it handles noisy mains supply that isn't a perfectly sine wave.

Wow, that’s pretty cool! What a neet concept

I think you forgot about reliability. Diodes themselves are typically very reliable and can work for years without a problem. This active rectifier adds additional ICs in the main power path. I doubt it will be more reliable, probably much less. Additionally as you mentioned - this will only make sense if a lot of current is flowing through the rectifier, so it will be a very niche device.

Thank you for your wonderful explanatory video.

Fascinating. Definitely seems like a better idea for things with huge draw: maybe PC power supplies? (Which often have PFC anyway). I was going to say that DC charging of EVs might want this too, but the high speed DC chargers have big cabinets of electronics so they probably have something even more sophisticated. But, maybe the onboard charger in an EV for connection to Level 1/Level 2 AC service equipment uses these. My relatively new furnace has an "electrically commutated motor" in the blower, which is basically a DC brushless motor. Maybe it could also be a use for these, since the blower is a fairly large draw. (Or inverter type heat pumps...)

I have been looking for a solution to exactly this problem.  Thanks!

yes the aim is to create a pfc without diodes. Power supply with no active pcf is not acceptable now.

i have been wanting such a rectifier for a long time, actually - it can pump electricity back into the grid, which is sometimes useful (for example if you're speed-controlling a dc motor with an autotransformer followed by such a rectifier, turning the motor speed down will actually cause regenerative braking). A huge inductor before the capacitor should be able to take care of these recirculating currents.

 @victortitov1740  If you connected a synchronous rectifier directly to a DC motor I would expect the losses to be higher due to the massive AC component of the voltage waveform applied to the motor. For your speed control application I would just use regular diodes. Instead of regen braking when you turn down the knob it will just coast.

And variable frequency input like in wind turbines cars or bicycle. .
Multi phase alternators could be a more reliable and simpler solution.

Size is also an important factor for designers. The active rectifier is much larger than the FBR

Exactly!!!!! Why to overcomplicate something that works passively and has less weaks points

 @internetisinteresting7720  Because you might need to squeeze more efficiency out of the device, and don't want to waste power dumping lots of current through diodes?

Any idea of their longevity? Meaning; will they last as long as or longer than the traditional diode design?

great explanation , always had hard time visualizing this. now i know how it works. neat.

I learned that I will continue to use full bridge rectifiers and lead based solder as somethings just work with out added complexity and points of failure. Keeping things simple makes for greater reliability as a rule but not always as efficient as more complex circuit configurations.

You see hints often however, just to be clear, your penmanship is so perfect it distracts. This is good because I enjoy seeing the video twice.😊

This reminds me exactly of when I was learning about H-Bridges in one of my uni classes where instead of acting as a rectifier, the MOSFET gates were controlled by a micro controller at a set frequency and we were effectively inverting a DC source to alternating AC. We also had to worry about ‘dead time’ or essentially, the necessary length of time from the microcontroller where all MOSFETS were closed between cycles so as to not cause a short, great nostalgia.

Definitely do a video on boost pfc. I never learned it in school and yet it seems to be everywhere in industry.

I would be remiss to not point out that even in the test where the active rectifier was noticeably better the FBR only fell to 96-97% efficiency - not anything worth stressing about.

Thank you for showing this to us.

Can we all take a moment to appreciate the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER it's an amazing invention that helps us to make our life we easy.

As always thanks for your videos. I really appreciate your concise diagrams that really help me understand.

5:05 McDonald's

Your handwriting is beautiful

00:02 man, that might get you a copyright strike ;)

Good to see the experiment

Outside of special applications or high power devices, these seem unnecessarily complex. More circuitry means more chances for something to fail. However, for high power applications these do seem like a pretty nice way to reduce the need for active heat dissipation on the input side, but depending on the amount of power conditioning after the rectification process or the amount of heat dissipated by the power supply total, the amount of benefit gained might not be significant enough to justify the additional manufacturing cost. Still a pretty cool circuit nonetheless.

for high voltage, the typical full bridge rectifier is still needed more than any other MOSFET full bridge rectifier.

A warning for everyone: the configuration at 5:42 is dangerous as it's referenced to the mains. An autotransformer DOES NOT ISOLATE FROM THE MAINS!
It's also a good way to blow up your oscilloscope.

Having seen the hand writing, I am not at all surprised to see the ultra neat work area!

Great video, you didn't mention schottky diodes within a full bridge rectifier? I've not seen them packaged this way as they are with regular bridge rectifiers but it would be interesting to know their efficiency also. keep up the great work!

GreatVideo! increible trabajo! muy bueno!.
Gracias por compartir

From a purely theoretical standpoint, the fact that there are more components involved with the active circuit means that the MTBF (Mean Time Before Failure) will be shorter with the switching circuit than with the diodes.  However, in real life it comes   down to the specific design of each circuit and how hot each of the components get - typically a 10 degree C rise means roughly half the service life.   Assuming there is enough space and / or airflow to keep everything cool enough, it shouldn't be hard to get the circuit to last for decades of normal use.

For anything attached to AC mains however, a big killer is lightning surges that make it into the house.  So the limiting factor is how much surge protection is available before those circuits, and the voltage ratings of the devices attached to the mains.

I highly doubt it.  I think they would likely fail much more quickly.

I thought of the same. A while back I was thinking about building something to convert single-phase to three-phase AC. It used six MOSFETs in the inverter to make three square-waves and an Arduino to control them.

It's so simple yet effective

True

Full Bridge Rectifier 😂

Don’t worry, the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER will rectify the situation.

Not just high power.  Less power loss means less heat generated, means you might avoid a cooling fan.  Active rectification is very common with modern switched mode power supplies

​ @matthiaswandel  Fancy seeing you here! I agree with you. I just meant the cost benefit ratio would be larger in high power devices, lower power devices would also benefit albeit to a lesser degree.  If I could remove a cooling fan, and the money saved on that was higher than the increased cost of the circuitry, this component would definitely be a viable option.  I was just taught to always to minimize complexity; if you have two solutions that work use the simpler one, because it minimizes failure points and reduces cost to the end user.  When I wrote that response, a rectifier costs around two dollars, and the active rectifier cost nearly ten. If the benefit gained is significant enough to justify the additional cost, then its worth consideration for sure. The customer is the one paying for the additional cost, so if they are willing to pay more and the outcome is greater reliability, its a win win.

"or high power devices"

High *current.

Totally correct.

I think his oscilloscope has isolated channels

 @thiagoamericano1412  That does not remove the risk of mains power. An autotransformer, and usually every variac in general just does NOT isolate from the mains.

Is it because schottky diodes have greater reverse voltage leakage making the whole thing short together? I don't know that's why we're here but I looked it up and it's only like 40V almost like a zener so for low voltage maybe. For high voltage, I'm thinking a hard NO. Feel free to correct me if I'm wrong.

 @foxfyre3600  Correct me if I'm wrong, but wrong you are (I think). Basically all SiC power diodes are schottky junctions and they sport some of the highest breakdown voltages available. They are not very popular due to their cost vs. an active rectification solution and negligible efficiency gains attributable to lower forward knee which matters least at high voltages.

What surprises me is that after decades of electronics and semi conductors, there's still novel ways of rectification being found. I would have thought that by now there's one tried and tested and best solution for every usage scenario established.

Mehdi's HVDC video's got THE MOTHER OF FUUUUUULEST BRIDGE RECTIFIER.That's got around 12 diodes.Might not be an easy challenge replacing diodes.

I vaguely remember there being something similar around many decades ago with controlled ignitron tubes as rectifier

I can see electroboom in you when you said FUL BRIDGE RECTIFEIR love u😊

love the new intro.

Great video. Good to know that they only work efficiently with low voltage AC.

Fascinating stuff! Thanks, dude! 😃
Stay safe and creative there! 🖖😊

Interesting idea and it always good to experiment. Sometimes though over engineering cannot compete with simplicity.

Thanks for another great video!

Dang, I need an active bridge rectifier shirt now

Good Job as always.

That's a great analysis, thank you.

The electro boom intro lol

You name wins. You are really Great.

I patented this in 1993 in a super efficient inverter circuit.

Was waiting for a video

Awesome! I cannot help but like you. ;)

Thanks for new practical and useful information for me. Great video 👍

Thanks for the video.

Very interesting video thank you. Can we conclude from this that the good old bridge rectifier was way ahead of its time.😉

Abbsolutely correct. Good job.

Waiting for electroboom to react on it 🤣

Great video 👍 as always

I can understand why you were so nervous about causing a short circuit, main can be very scary! Once, when I was 13, I was playing around with a computer power supply, and I accidentally, switched it from 240V to 120V and turned it on. As I am in Australia, our mains is 240V… I think you know what happened next. A huge bang and a flash of light later, I had learned what that switch on a power supply did and never made the same mistake again XD

Full Bridge Rectifier is like the humble Wheel...

always improved on but never obsolete

can you do a topic on power quality and harmonics?

I was afraid someone was tryna start some beef with ElectroBOOM but then I realized it was Greatscott!!

3:05 I have those exact same German made 0.6mm felt pens! Love em; they write so precisely!

Great tshirt!!!
It looks Creative 😀

this is convenient.  I made and active rectifier at the university back in 2006  to dramatically increase the output of a small wind turbine we were testing

I am waiting for electroboom to get here

I also am one of your faithful students that comprehend through electric training, the Power Factor, now very well discussed in electronics.  The current leads the voltage which is slower to flow, as a brown out, until the Power Factor is corrected with capacitance to have the current & voltage be supplied to the load.  An Inductive load has a Power Factor correction to be made.  ♥

awesome as always

Such a low drop bridge rectifier is basically essential, as you mentioned, in very low voltage applications where you don't want to lose voltage and/or waste power. BUT in this case you don't need such a complicated circuit. For a 3V or less application I designed a rectifier which basically consists of a flip flop: you apply the ac voltage on the "outputs" of the not gates and get the rectified voltage on the "vcc" and "gnd" terminals of the gates. Each not gate is made of a PMOS and a nmos transistor. At first the circuit starts because of the parasitic bulk source diodes which constitute a traditional bridge, then the gate source of each MOSFET is driven properly by the output voltage.
By the way, what I would really love is an active zero-drop diode (MOSFET with it's own driver) to be used in the secondary of low-voltage-output switching power supply, where the voltage drop of the diode is causing a big loss in efficiency

Great Job!

Good clear video.

How strange. I was actively looking into this subject today at work on their network and their computer and I come home and it's recommended on my home PC

Thank you for content

The most fun I had with a bridge rectifier was modifying my Mom's "Light and Motion" Christmas tree ornaments.  These had any number of motorized operations to bring the ornament to life, but if you had a number of them on the tree, they got noisy.  So, I put a pair of diodes on each ornament so that one polarity went through the ornament, and the opposite bypassed the ornament.  Then I ran all the power going to the tree through a full wave rectifier, followed by a double pole switch that allowed me to reverse the output polarity.  Viola, in the middle switch position, the tree was unlit.  In another, it lit up and in the third, it lit up and the motorized ornaments came to life.  Mom thought it was magic.

Great video 💯💯

Years late, but just gotta say...

Measuring 317V DC, raw, off the board.  Massive balls. Massive.

Who re-work on your enterence video, I Love It!

I love these cool stuff here

I love your videos!

More components, more breakdowns

There it goes my “full bridge rectifier” tshirt

Instant Thumb-Up for the poke at Mehdi in the title! 😄

Yes, Electroboom might definitely be preparing for his response video... 🤣🤣🤣

Audio  power amp may well be a good choose for power correction factor  elements with the active bridge given the high current needs .  The PCF  used with the large bank of cap is worth looking at.

Very cool! reminds me of an H bridge almost.

A good place to start in deciding if they are worth the cost is comparing the diode drop to the supply voltage. 1.4V to mains voltage is a very small fraction, so the potential benefit is also quite small. And the active circuitry requires some power itself. Below some current threshold, that would be greater than the loss in the diodes themselves.

Full Bridge Rectifier!!!

Ha! you have Fuller Bridge Rectifier... Take that ElectroBOOM!      Nice... Now we're waiting for the response video... preparing the popcorn, this is gonna be good.

Thanks! Cool...

Interesting, I've seen synchronous rectifiers for the output of high current converters (own a few driver ics that come with it built in even, for both push-pull and buck-boost converters), but this is the first time I've even considered it for an ac input. Learn something new everyday I suppose.

I'm pretty sure some guy came into the shop years ago talking about how we needed something like this.  Now it makes me wonder how far back these things go commercially.

Thanks dude.

keep it simple, keep it working.

Very interesting.

awesome hand sketch.....

Great job

This is reminded me so many time. Most rectifier and other component i use online are mostly lack of efficiency. Atleast for local market/industrial production are quite more then ok. But there is couple of time i bought online from japan and taiwan. They are really provide darn excellent. The only problem now is they terminate its product.  And sometime hardly find good super capacitor and 18600  battery nowadays for heart content.

Nice for you

decent analysis
🙂

:washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands::washhands: Brasil, não perco nenhum video parabéns

Bottom text : sorry electroboom 
😂😂😂

A very informative comparison!

Active rectification with PFC stage would be a deadly combination 🚀

I think the most interesting thing is the MOSFET driver ICs (TEA2206 & TEA2208) while being active, meaning they require a power supply, they use the AC mains by charging a capacitor on the initial cycle. The data sheet says the body diode in the MOSFET is used initially in the 2208 as a traditional rectifier to charge the capacitor and power the IC. It would be neat to look closer at exactly how this action happens. Nice video!

Fantastic

My first experience with a FBR was when it went wong on an old pair of boes powered speakers and helpfully desolderd itself.

The reason for the part that only controls the low side is likely for use with some kind of semi-bridgeless boost pfc topology. For those circuits you do not need to rectify the upper half since the line and neutral are tied to inductors directly.

I never thought about using an active rectifier on the input side of a SMPS, only on the high current low voltage output of the SMPS transformer.

In a telecom system, the input voltage is -48V DC (nominal). There are two power busses for multiple power feeds for reliability. That means power can be drawn from either. MOSFETs were used to make that selection of power busses. All was good until someone connected one of the power busses backwards. The boards which were already powered up were fine, but any new board installed would blow the fuses in the board, because multiple MOSFET were enabled at one time before the power controller could pick the right one. Moral to the story is that the MOSFET controller may need to be powered by a full wave rectifier before they can be turned on, but there may still be a race condition like we had.

The next test you should perform with this active rectifier is one based on an alternator or some type of pulsing DC generator. Possibility would be to use a BLDC motor which will generate a good strong AC voltage. 👍👍

9 year old me came up with the full-bridge rectifier in my head—I couldn’t come up with this 😂

You should do another one on DC-DC power supplies. My company loves to use them. We'll send out 24Vdc via a cable and then use them on a board at the end of the cable to then convert it to 5v and/or 12v. We even had a few systems run on 56Vdc as a mains voltage then converted down.. For me those DC-DC PS are a common issue, we use an IC version soldered on boards.

first knowing  the active rectifier  catched my  interest this circuit  can be  useful with very  high power equipment in the KW  region 
so using a complex circuit  like this to drive  a 10w  flyback switching DC power supply on the primary  side is completely useless but it's good to learn something new every day .
thanks for the great videos 👋

I designed a similar system in reverse to create insanely large voltage spikes for use in an LEC driver.

I like how he starts in Electroboom's style. Fuuuull bridge rectifier!!!!

Glad you liked it!

This was cool.

I saw many laptop power supplies with diode bridge mains rectifier, PFC boost and active output 19V rectifiers. Many of them are for DELL laptops. Input rectifier efficiency bonus is relatively small vs cost acitve circuit, but at output with higher currents it's real benefit. Lower voltages = cheap parts and simpler cicuit.

Thanks sir

Seen this technology for high current 3 phase industrial electronics. In that case there are 6 diodes replaced, when there is about 120A per phase its a no brainer to use the active rectification

I realize I am focusing on the wrong part of the story but, man that is some sweet handwriting.
And most people go their whole lives without using the phrase "Luckily, nothing blew up."

I'm just glad you didn't use a puny single diode rectifier.

I love full bridge rectifier and I all ways use it in I don't want to replace it

Good video

@GreatScott - if I'm not mistaken, that MOSFET network with H-design & switching controller is nearly identical to the design of a pure-sine DC/AC inverter, many of which use the EGS002 controller board that's everywhere on the internet these days, and built into many inverter products on the market.

buen video

you are awesome!

FesZ Electronics recently featured a low-dropout regulated DC supply for 6.3V tube heaters with MOSFETs as rectifying devices; what is more, thyratrons (and later thyristors) have been used in adjustable power supplies for decades.

If there is an IC for it, humanity has already tried to go that route. The FBR will probably never go away.

you should make a video on soldering better
you seem to do it so well

FOOOL BRIDDGEE REKTIFIED!!!

Nice video, am pretty sure electroboom does know about active rectifiers, but I like your accent also! :-)

Very much helpful ☺️

It's so funny how one man managed to change the way how the entire Youtube reads FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

Thats probably why modern switch mode power supplies boost primary voltage before rectification.

I saw ur build quality in a cutaway during just the intro. Instant subscribe. Can't wait to see how this one ends... my $ is on mosfets, gamechangers #siliconcarbide

May be you should look into the regulation on harmonic distortion and PFC....

Thanks.

Pretty cool.

I would love to see some video of how to modify the secondary stage of a switching power supply to mosfet instead of diode bridges... Here we really need the efficiency as you can easily end up with 50Amps of current at 12V

me: watches this video
also me: sees the GreatScott into
me: "this is him now lol"

When they tested the Bridgeless PFC by Ćuk, they noticed significant distortion in the power input. That is because the other equipment on that line used the 1895 vintage bridge rectifier. Try reading up on 21st-century designs.

Use opto isolaters for each mosfet take a small amount from the open switch to power the mosfet gate voltage.
It seem to have its best advantage at low voltage high current applications.

so many inverters or deverters can get improved  in the future

One bridge rectifier asks the other if he will finish his lunch. And the first one says - no, I'm full :)

as a hobbist not currently tinkering with electronics. I still appreciate this video. Thanks for the info!

I knew from the beginning that the full bridge rectifier would still be here. Lower component count, cost, and last but not least higher power rating, the FBR will be with us for as long as we have electronics.

Wait until electroboom reacts this video

Ha! I guessed class-D audio amp in the poll. How wrong I was! :)

The  difference in efficiency is so insignificant because the active rectifiers are meant to be used along with a PFC Inductor, once they are used as PFC, the difference in efficiency will be very significant. In short active rectifiers are not only meant for lessening the conduction losses but primarily to improve the power factor.

ID LOVE TO SEE THE PCB EXPANDED TO A BREADBOARD

Properly controlled mosfet bridge is used in sofstart to power on and off the motors

This is still full bridge rectifier! Just more expensive and more efficient version of it. In my old job we use to make invertors and we used field transistor rectifiers like the on you got there. We did this to reduce the heat in the enclosure. But again this is still full bridge rectifier.

Interesting idea, however it comes with a very great risk of a possible glitch, from a power surge, or lighting storm to allow AC right into your device. The mosfets are really timed in sync with the AC input by the controller chips, making it very efficient AC to DC decoder. As in a diode circuit they could short out as well but in most cases for wise protection another diode or two are down the line to prevent it from killing the rest of the circuit, but if you are looking to have a low loss or loss less circuit those other protection diodes would be eliminated.

TEA2208 is £6.90 at Mouser and the LT4320 is a similar price.  My use case is a 0.25V power supply for electrolytic purification of Copper.  It's not so simple to design a switch mode power supply for that either.  Going back in time is a tunnel diode transmitter which requires a similar voltage where dropping it from 1.5V is very inefficient.  For these sort of applications one needs to roll ones own circuit.

Yes, nice, the old high current diodes have a voltage drop between 0,8-1v. Now in the industry the common is MOSFETs with lower voltage drops

If u want to reduce load on the grids then this is one way

The circuitry of modern power supplies is such that on the low-voltage side, bridge rectification circuits are not used in most cases. And, in many, but not all cases, Schottky diodes can be used.

Low voltage, high current power supplies require active rectification like a 5V supply at 50 amps.  You made a simple video for electronics 101 students.  Don't forget about cost, complexity and reliability too.

0.9% might not sound good but given how many devices could use this across the country and world, that's an unbelievable amount of energy

The interest of acrive rectifier is mostly when used for low voltage rectification, specially standalone battery powered things, for example small wind power systems. For high voltage like 120V or 220V the current is low , so the loss is acceptable.
After that there is the case of high current rectification. Dropping 1.3V over 10A may make regular diodes quite hot.

A four Triac bridge can help generate 220 V 50 Hz AC from DC 330 V Solar panel. The output from the solar panel is first converted into 220 V 50/-50 Hz sine DC pulses using a DSP with Buck Converter structure. The triac bridge with an autotransformer for impedance matching gives a 220 V 50 Hz AC output.

Its good when things don't explode when you turn them on!

Bridge rectifier can't be obsolete, because cheap & simple project need it, I also thought about mosfet rectifier before because my 60A rectifier is destroyed, I really need it, thanks for the introduce

The amount of rectifiers and DC equipment plugged into the grid is definitely causing the AC waveform to become less and less of a perfect sinusoid, you can see how the peaks became duller on the oscilloscope

I would like to know more about the power factor circuit and how it is able to affect how the active rectifier operates.

That is good for car amplifier for reverse polarity protection . MOSFET handle high current

Between ur formality and accent + elecroboom being a fellow Canadian, I'm torn lmao.
Both of your work is great. Maybe a colab is in the works?

Dear Mr,
Can you make a video explaining about voltage multipliers using diodes and capacitors?
Thank you... 🙏😊

the company I work for replaced all rectifiers with active rectifiers in new designs we do a lot of low voltage high amperage for Motors. A good low on resistance fast switching mosfet is a gamer changer for efficiency and thermal solutions we use LT 4320 controllers

Every time I saw you plug the power to the circuit I expected something to explode

The old school power supplies with full bridge rectifiers are also quieter to radio frequencies. Ham stations use them as a staple instead of the newer "switching" versions. Those things are noisy "on air".

Hi, Would you do a video in response to “the great misconception on how electricity flows?”   I would really like to hear your explanation because I’d understand it better.

The schematic almost looks like a square-wave inverter working in reverse, using the AC input to synchronise the mosfets as opposed to a timer circuit.

In low power low cost PSUs the loss is small so not an issue. In higher power PSUs not only are the rectifier losses an issue, but also the power factor, i.e. the current is taken in short high current spikes to recharge the capacitor, which power companies don't like. Decent switching power supplies have built in power factor correction and will often only require one or 2 diodes on the output. For high efficiency these will be active rectifiers (power MOSFETS) as you describe, either driven from the SMPS controller or windings on the transformer or a dedicated chip.

On Semi has a part that I've used that utilizes this tech in a good way, with a quad MOSFET package. FDMQ8205A, if you want to look up the data sheet. I'm not sure how well it works with AC, but it's great for making a DC input that works regardless of polarity.

Sorry ElectroBOOM and Diode Gone Wild  LOL

I just want to know how you make your perfboard PCB's so damn neat, I can never manage it no matter how I try

i think these could be nice for modern high power class D PA amps (like the Behringer NU3000/NX3000) as those need quite a bit of current same for high power PC PSU's and especially in car audio amplifiers, the currents those often push through the rectifiers is no joke

Another possibility, which I haven't tried yet, is to use 4 AOZ7270DI ideal diodes, which have internal MOSFETs, or 4 AOZ7200CI ideal diode controllers, which use external MOSFETs.

Very common in high efficiency computer PSUs... 
The lower the voltage, the more common.

I know full bridge rectifier is the correct term, but "Graetz bridge" were so ingrained in me when I learned electronics in high school (approx 17 years ago).

Overall good video, but i would say in a low voltage application there would probably only be a single diode rectifier to cut down the losses.

Great video,  the H bridge circuit is cool i used it to control a motor that i designed and it kept blowing up i thought it was a timing problem between npn and pnp transistors so I isolated the gates and used 4 npn transistors it did not help but costed a lot less 😅. I ended up sobering the circuit with diodes and 4 capacitor (took 3 months and a vace full of transistors before I found the right combination)

Mouser charges $8325 for a 2500-count reel of this IC, or $5.46 if you only want one. And then you've got to add four MOSFETs and whatever other support components are necessary. They also sell 50A/1000V standard single-phase bridges for $2.01. You would need to avoid dissipating a lot of heat to justify the active rectifier.

@electroboom let the debate begin

Nice video! For you next experiment how about a 0 to 160V DC power supply. Yes, you will need to control the gate voltages to reduce the output voltage and it will increase the need for heat sinking the Mosfets, also it won't have good efficiency. So you could just go with PWMing the gates.

I imagine there would be some more integrated solutions including nearly all the components required to make an active rectifier.

"The End of the Full Bridge Rectifier?"
Mine works fine.

I read the title as FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!, with the echoes and everything

I think during the capacitive load test the capacitor bank was unable to discharge properly, it kept on charging, adding a bleeder resistance to it should resolve that, alongside, also utilizing the body diode during some period of the supply voltage. This means that the mosfets should be triggered at a certain value of alpha, which can be adjusted by the time constant of the load.

That would work good with 3 phase dc wind generator.

your amazing.  Maybe you could help find a way to reduce the heat of video transmitter in drones?

There's also the option of using schottky diodes, to improve a little the efficiency, keeping the classic simple passive configuration.

Something like this might be better served in a high noise low power application.

650V Silicon Carbide (SiC) Schottky Barrier Diodes are an option for an off-line bridge. These devices share current so they can be placed in parallel. They are very robust. Most newer off-line supplies are called universal mains. Which is usually made up of two supplies an auxiliary supply (usually a 15W to 50W flyback) and a main universal, which has a power factor correction front end and then a buck converter after. 

For new designs you will have to design for universal mains and also meet the world wide regulator requirements which will include power factor correction and also very low standby current. The approach is to have the Aux supply supervise the larger supply. Much like a newer high efficiency "fanless" PC power supply. One of the challenges is to make sure your supply can pass the line AC mains transient tests (world wide), where the bridge in order to survive needs to be very robust. Also, the filter capacitors are not easy to specify and the PCB layout has to be correct.

Geiles T-Shirt! Wo gibts das?

Do it again for high current applications

If your into high end audio... No hard switching mosfets. Although normal diodes makes noise too.
I use very special ones
But for all kind of other applications 👍

Should look into "Fractional-Order devices" - e.g. a "Fractor" - you can make one with the innards of a turkey sandwich in between two plates (it won't last long, but it works!)

In the ad the guy typing the email makes a typo saying the components have an outrated 3D model. The Message is spelled correctly on the recipients screen :D

The efficiency of regular (passive) full-bridge rectifier circuit is only dependent on the voltage drop on the diode and the AC voltage. The actual power and current does not effect the efficiency directly: efficiency = 1 - 2*voltage_drop/ac_voltage. The increase of power loss of course leads to the increase of temperature, but it has no dierct effect on the efficiency

Concerning rectifiers and current: BigClive had a recent video where a lamp had an FBR followed by a triple diode + two capacitor setup.
Title is "Fixing and hacking a light from Thomas Nagy"
Maybe with a DC-side circuit like there, you do not run into the capacitive load issues.

The ic control it Is powered by diode. Diode wins! Flawless Víctory.

Full Bridge Rectifieeeeyah will never end! 😂

GreatScott: This video is sponsored by Altium.
Me: (thinking) Cool!
GreatScott: ... shows schematic captured in Eagle.
:)

For lower voltages, full bridge rectifier with shottky diodes is way to go on ;)

I thought this idea had been around for a while? I know it's typically not used in consumer products due to cost and size, but I've made a rectifier using transistors in the past. It's not great for higher power devices as the transistors get pretty hot but MOSFETs can probably cope with the higher powers.

I don't get 90% of what he's saying, yet i watch him cuz its still very interesting even for a dummy like me

Germanium diodes are the best for low voltage & low amp use cases! Not very common nowadays except in audio circuits, but often used in very old gadgets

Hi, Would you do a video in response to “the great misconception on how electricity flows?”   I would really like to hear your explanation because I’d understand it better.

"Synchronous Rectification" (such as active rectification) actually pre-date diode rectifiers. Before semiconductor rectifiers, including selenium rectifiers. Before "tube rectifiers", including hot filament vacuum diodes & mercury vapor rectifiers, and various "cold cathode" rectifiers, there was were synchronous rectifiers in the form of mechanical commutators and brushes, that are parts of DC generators. That's what Edison used for making DC power, back in the 1800s before "electronics" even existed.

Old basic solution is perfect than complex one in most case

Muy buena info y muy buenos  las pruebas, yo creo que ese tipo de rectificador seia más eficiente para alta potencia no? Seguí así

The control chip can be backed up with a second set of control chips and a switch to activate the second set when the first enters a fail state. Just a thought if the  equipment would be damaged upon a control chip failure.

That's what I figured the conclusion would be! They have their own use cases but I don't see a multi chip package like that getting down to the form factor and cost of a regular fbr, so it wouldn't achieve ubiquity... However it has uses, and in those right spots they're good.

Thanks!

nice

LMAO. I was about to take this up for a research based internship I recently got. 
I however went with the bidirectional converters. Btw, it would be really awesome if you make a video on the bidirectional converters as well.

ooh cool! I love Ideal Diode circuits! I use cheap Ideal Diode boards for all of my applications now I dont know their switching frequency capability but they are only used for preventing backfeeding of certain multiple supply rails for my Buffer Power Distribution and also my DC UPS that switches to battery when mains goes out. Both these systems use a slightly higher voltage for the supply that has higher priority (mains powered versus battery powered)
A full bridge rectifier would be awesome for a high power switching power supply I have lots of power supplies that have APFC. I think you need to increase your collection of random power boards! :D

A much more efficient method is a dual polarity PFC, which combines active rectification and PFC into one system.  I am surprised the TEA 2206/8 even exists, as there is likely very little, if any, demand for such a controller.  I also notice it is insanely priced, meaning not used much.

meanwhile i’m exploring backwards… playing with vaccum tube rectifiers

as he emphasizes it just like electro boom  😂😂😂

I think the biggest efficiency gain would be at the low voltage levels like 5 volts. A .6 volt drop vs a .1 volt drop should yield higher efficiency at the low voltages. I notice many SWPS are using synchronous rectifiers on the low voltage output side.

always wanted to know about microcontroller cap rectifiers charge a ac cap to a Xvolt cap useing a mosfet to keep a cap charge # supercaps !

Interesting test and results - but wouldn't an added factor in building such circuits also need to consider component points of failure?  More components, more places for failure?  It does make sense tho, for lower voltage applications.  Again - thanks for a very informative video.

I wonder if you could create this in an ASIC?

Make a video with a full bridge rectifier with tubes diodes xD

Hey Scott.. can you provide a list of soldering kit brands that you use .. THKS 🙂

Can you do episode about metal detectors    with  a circuit explain

What if you used a small diod full bridge of very low current only to turn on and off the mosfets full bridge with higher currents at lower losses?

Please need full explanation how to work

The trend of course is that technology tends toward increasing complexity over time... At some point, however, this leads to a problem of diminishing returns, and in the face of future energy and resource challenges (see: Overshoot and Natural Limits), it is clear that sticking to basics and designing for efficiency and longevity will likely supersede any advantages of more complex approaches offering only marginal improvements.  Time will tell, but sometimes, depending on the application and/or broader circumstances simpler is better.

Full Bridge Rectifiah 💪

I've got a BSEE. The correct name is "Full Wave Bridge" or "Full Wave Rectifier". This is in contrast to a "Half-Wave Rectifier" (a simple diode). It has that name because it allows the full incoming AC wave to be transferred to the load. Also, a full-wave bridge is usually drawn as it is because of its similarity to a Wheatstone Bridge (often used to monitor sensors such as strain gauges and solid-state thermometers).

The voltage drop across a semiconductor diode is 0.7v for common technologies. That's constant regardless of the current flowing through the device (until it burns up). There are two diode-drops in each path through the full-wave bridge. With a 120V p-p AC input, that means that the power loss is about 1.17%. Every component involved in any circuit uses power (generally expressed as heat). So the extra components added for your alternative themselves use power. When you start with an energy savings "budget" of just 1.17%, it isn't surprising that you end up with little savings to show for the effort.

This exercise sounds like what we programmers (I'm now a programmer) call "premature optimization".

I was not surprised that you ultimately found that a full-wave bridge is nearly always a solid engineering choice.

When you have mosfets there as well, they can also be the first stage of a switch mode power supply. :+ )

Thanks for the support :-)

Have you thought of O-Scoping each circuit to see the function of each one to determine what causes the short circuit?

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!! must protecc

I didn't watch your films for some time, guess my surprise when I saw some chap talking with your voice, instead of a hand writing some stuff. ;)

@2:00 in the altium ad right there is a typo i think "outrated" should be "outdated" haha

Hmm... You should've tried using resistors for inrush current limiting for the capacitors.. (and probably it would be a good idea to put a resistor in parallel  to make sure that the capacitors will get drained after you pull the plug so you know you won't handle charged resistors)

I need an ultra low ripple abot 10mv sincronus rectifier of a pover suply, folowed by s variable tension amplifier to variate/deecrease the duty cycle of a pwm which generat zese riple acros a boost converter suplied from low power suply!

It's a bit interesting that the message sent over Altium 365 (these components have an outrated 3D model) gets corrected to 'outdated' by the time it arrives at destination :) @2:00

Is it possible to use small diodes instead of those ICs to turn mosfets on or off, creating a simple circuit?!!

Heard that when mosfets fail (on 3d printer bed heaters), they sometimes fail in closed position.

The fact that the "Diodes" are still present inside the microchip driver makes them irreplaceable in order to get at least some form of rectification. But I guess such technology is more efficient.

If you look for better efficiency to be more friendly with the enviroment, you also have to take in account the energy employed to bouild TEA2206 and every component of each circuit and the time you need to equiparate this 2W loss.

Engineer: So coooooooooool!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Purchase dept: What about the cost?

There is a face to the name , I like!

That looks like a good match for things like wind/water power solutions, where you have low AC voltages and even a small increase in efficiency can make a big difference.

Does that make sense?

Hell yeah i did😊

You haven't seen the fractal capacitor array? Its amazing!

You wanna make a test about efficiencies between (stepping down, and rectifying) and (rectifying and stepping down)?

Although larger in size, a nominal increase in efficiency can be achieved by using NPN power transistors with their base and collector joined. The 'voltage drop' is less than single diodes. Germanium devises = even less loss.

@GreatScott! You could mention that its very old technology. Thyristor based 3phase rectifiers are older than me. For most applications MOSFET is just overcomplicated solution. There is a reason why its not used (popular). For most applications diode is good enough, then if you need more control: SCR (Thyristor). 
About the short-circuit: I finished my uni like 10y ago, and do not remember all, and things get lost in translation, but there is a phenomenon of comutation in thyristor based rectifiers, maybe you experienced similar thing.

So what you're saying is in the US, Canada, and Japan, where we use twice the AC current as you, the improvement might actually be worth it. :P

Howdy.
You might consider germanium or schottky diodes ...
Regards.

The reason your capacitive load shorted out is that the active rectifier does not only charge the capacitor during every cycle, but also discharges it when the output voltage is lower than the capacitor. This is because the rectifier does not contain a diode any more that prevents reverse current flow. That's also the reason you need an additional circuit after it.

Recently i simulate Rectifier that convert 3 phase Ac to DC o proteus on 5V Ac 50hz it was fine but on 220v i get u ractified pulsating dc even i use capacitor on putput

Don't forget that a PFC can draw sinusoidal current from the grid. For the grid, this is the main advantage of active (pfc) rectification. Of course, as long as it's still allowed to use full bridge rectifiers, everyone will use those cause it's cheaper.

the server power supplies that produce 100A plus use synchronous rectifiers like this.

I've blown several full bridge rectifiers at 120 amps. 

I guess I need to try this now

Not mentioned in the video is that all SMPS perform rectification at least twice, and this test only replaced the mains rectification stage where potential efficiency gains are usually negligible. Active rectification gains are most significant on the low side which is why almost all reasonably sophisticated power supplies do it. Pretty much any SMPS with PFC will already have active rectification.

There's way more to active rectifiers than this video covers such as the design and operation of the charge pumps and level shifters for the gate drivers and the relative (and often hidden) efficiency cost of gate drive current on power factor versus the typical diode junction capacitance of a standard rectifier.

This type of active rectification mainly applies to power electronics but there is also a whole other genre of small signal "precision" rectifiers whose designs are equally interesting. And really the mercury-arc rectifier is the king of cool as rectifiers go. An impossible act to follow.

As you open mosfets in wrong way your condenser drops to main supply. If you do not open them at all they working as usual diodes.  The only way to solve this task is to open the gate by potential different between main power and condenser. In this way supply peaks going to easily leak to condenser without extra resist. But as I remember there is  leaking diodes on market already.

Is it sad that I already thought of and sort of did this a few years ago?

Poor Electroboom.

i think newer atx psus use active rectifiers on the secondary side, i guess because of the large currents

I always thought the best place to see an active rectifier was in an automotive alternator. There you will see amperage from 20-200Amps at frequencies under 1kHz. Even then PFC helps squeeze all the power out you can without overloading the coils.

I wonder if this is how the HVDC plants do it.

The datasheet seems to have powerfactor correction in it and I think this might be the issue. The capacitor obviously shifts the current out of sync with the voltage, hence the issue.

Electroboom been awfully quiet ever since this single dropped 🤔🤔

OK, now I have to do another project. You can just make a little bias circuit for each one to turn it on when it goes forward bias, right? With  zeners to protect the gate from over voltage either way.  I am super busy right now with electro-chemistry, but I will try one very soon.

Who else can't wait for a reaction or a reply from Mehdi?

Ich beneide Dich ja so um das schöne Gossen Metrawatt Multimeter!

Because of the lower parts count and cheaper components, most devices are likely to continue with an FBR in this day and age. Single-diode rectifiers are still used in some designs.

I suppose if one wants capacitor  smoothing and full wave rectification, one might still benefit with active rectification and settle with the voltage drop of one inline  diode just before the smoothing capacitors.

Heh -- I think you need to choose higher-current rectifiers.

I worked as a TV service tech for years and knew the answer to this right away lol,
At 250v odd volts the 0.6v drop across each diode to too small to be of any significance because current is going to be very low so trying to be more efficient here is pointless.
It adds unnecessary complexity and increases failure points too.
Sometimes simple old school methods are best.

I bet it wouldn't be hard to build a driver using a couple optocouples and smaller diodes. That's probably all the driver ic is. It would probable also eliminate the capacitive load issue.

Hi Scott!
Can you show how to make a high amperage 240v to 12v converter?

MOSFETs do come with switching losses... But fortunately that's negligible at 50 Hz.

* impatiently waits for ElectroBOOM to comment *

That might not be a big deal for the average home appliance, but if it's applied at a large scale, like in data centers, every bit helps especially when you consider that cooling is one of their biggest costs.

ANGRY UNIBROW DANCING INTENSIFYING

I couldnt count how many mosfets ive blown and seen blown in my lifetime, but could count on my hands about how many diodes ive had fail..  but most of the time its either the mosfet, capacitor or voltage regulator when i troubleshoot a circuit..   but usually a driver..

Great Scott, your conclusion, electrical engineering calls it is called "diode efficiency". Synchronous rectification was used in the telephony at the signal level.

So there could be discreet packaged units in the future that are complete full wave bridge Ideal Diodes.

So, this active rectifier.
Is this what a Switched Mode Power Supply is?

What if you replaced the rectification on the DC side of the power adaptor? With a SMPS there should be another rectification stage at the DC side which should be low voltage high current, since you only replaced the AC side in the video.

It's the heavy breath in

My electronics instructor would always say "you don't get something for nothing".

Synchronous rectification is old school (1980, vs ancient school (1897) for the bridge rectifier). Try reading about 2011 vintage bridgeless power-factor correction circuits by Slobodan Ćuk.

The  IC needs a big dedicated capacitor and a diode on its power input to keep the power on it while the whole circuit Voltage drops for a capacitive load.

This is laot like an H-Bridge in reverse. The AC coming in is where the motor would be and you are steering the voltage to the correct path.

Widely used for years in power electronics with thyristors or igbt

🤣🤣 electro make some BOOM 😍

The one great thing for hobby electronics about traditional PSUs- transformer, bridge rectifier, capacitors- is they're extremely simple, reliable and predictable.

that wave form at the beginning made me curious... can you build a FBR into a guitar pedal / synthesizer?

This is called "Emulating da ol' FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER Using Mosfets™"

maybe if you can made a 100amp 3phase  diode for alternator

There is a case for putting all the active rectifier elements in a package similar to the original.

It seems to me that nowadays, IGBTs are preferred to MOSFETs for these applications

mehdi? is that you? hahaha!

Hmm, I can sense the presence of electroBOOM...

On laptop power supply, there's a Mosfet instead of a diode.
It took me time to understand their schematic ::)
That's why I killed a few ...

This man has brain..
I think the point is the cost . When you are using this you are maximizing cost much more. 
This is why engineering exists .

So this might be especially nice for an off-grid hydro electric generation or multiphase wind generator, but not so much for standard consumer plug and forget application?

6:40 Next video: A rectifier that reaches 101% efficiency

So it would be awesome for metal plating: low voltage high current!

wow ERSA!!!

So the similar savings would be made with three phase rectifier connected in triangle 400V , than 230V. If household/company were set up with heatpump to reuse heat, it would be even more marginal. Efficiency of power regulators are making all the difference.

You missed wave out in the title!

Justice for electro boom

Fuerza ElectroBOOM

A full bridge rectifier accumulated in one single piece of plastic is called octocoupler it's available from way past

DA FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!!!

I wonder what your conclusions would be when you measured the current with the scope. The capacitor bank is famous for drawing current at the peak of the sinus. I wonder if the meter is accurate with the low duty cycle high current peaks.

It's still a "Bridge Rectifier". The change is in the nature of how the rectifying devices are operated.

7:21 RIP fuse

Less semiconductors, less components, less soldering and connections = cheaper production, better stability, easier maintenance. There are different approaches to AC rectification, including mercury arc devices - diode bridges are perhaps the most elegant and lightweight solution yet, where package costs more than the chip itself, despite some power losses.

yeah the full bridge rectifier is gonna be here for a while still. the design is so simple and cheap that many devices will still use it due to it being so simple

Use a crystal to produce 
Light glass wire

FOOOOOL BREEEDGE  RECTEEEFIIEEEERRRR  ! ! ! ! ! !

so with this (and with a h bridge driver), the easy part is having a circuit which works, but the hard part is having a circuit which doesn't blow itself up.

i challenged myself with designing a h bridge driver circuit. getting it working was easy. getting it to not blow up was hard. i lost so many MOSFETs to that project lmao, I literally had copper tracks vaporising themselves and MOSFETs turning their casing into shrapnel.

FBR will never die

new intro !

FOOOOOOL BRIDGE RECTIFIERRRRRR

I work on instruments made in the 1970s that have this technology.

Ok thats why you only see these on the output side of power supplies and not the input

What makes me curious about power supplies is how modern ones have got rid  of the bulky transformer

You can also see losses by checking for heat, all heat is losses

It's cool to have different ways to do things, but I'm imagining replacing all the diodes with MOSFETs, and with the amount that I blow, that would get expensive very quickly lol

Medhi is going to come get you.

There are also FERDs, I'm sure somebody also mentioned.

tube rectifiers are the best!

Now make one using vaccum tubes

Interesting ways of making some functions more efficient. Any idea of how electric commuter trains rectify the electricity?

This is an excellent video that I googled by accident... I'm looking for low-voltage high-current device, that can run, say, 1.1v at 20A DC for a home electrolysis tank. I don't see any commercial devices out there that advertise they 'step down' 120v to my requirements. I'm wondering if I could re-wind an old Microwave transformer 110v down to say, 1.2v, and then use your 'Active Rectifier' to make it DC, with min power loss?

How you record and edit your video please make a tutorial Sir...
Dhanyawad

👍👍

For low AC voltage inversion to DC, can we perhaps use a transformer to increase the voltage and then use a full bridge rectifier?

This is probably more suitable for large DC loads - inside EVs and power-wall type battery bank chargers.

The higher the voltage you're rectifying the less significant the diode drop is. If you reckon on 0.5v per conducting diode in 340v for rectified 240v its not worth the complexity unless you can just by an active rectifier package with 4 legs. You probably will be able to get that in the future.

Great idea BUT, do you know what happens when a MOSFET goes faulty?

I'm just waiting for the electroboom comment

I’ve seen these before.

I am waiting for the reply video from electroboom...😁

i thínk the old school version of rectifiers still are the best choice, that is because if you use the new version requieries more active components, and more technology to build it, wich translates to more elements, copper, silicon, etc, imagine if we erase from tbe world the production of recifiers with diodes and put this mosfets instead, over the time will be more expensive just for saving a couple of watts for make it for effiecient

I think you should compare power loss, not efficiency when you give those percentages. If one rectifier has 99% efficiency and another has 99.5%, the second one is 0.5% more efficient, which sounds very unimpressive. But it generates only half the heat, which actually IS impressive.

It isn't really about how much of the AC power you pull from the wall that gets into the DC doohickey that's interesting here. Those are basically the same across the board. But producing significantly less heat in the transformation is interesting, as that makes for easier engineering.

It would seem that the extra cost and complexity for very little improvement means that FBRs are here to stay.

The capacitor charges on the first cycle the back feeds on the next cycle

this looks just like a h bridge but in reverse. i built a h bridge with comparators and "dead zones" where all MOSFETs are off to prevent shoot through, something similar could definitely be done with this.

Active rectifies have been here. Where have you been at under a rock lol.

Something you missed was that the circuit to control the "active rectifier" controller requires a clean DC current to operate it.   Something I have seen with model trains for years is the use of only 1 diode to convert AC to DC. Sorry that is only getting part of the DC current and also still allowing AC to get through and often it will burn out the DC motors or other electronic parts.   Cheep, cheep, cheep idea or avoiding the necessary parts to just get by is something I see to often in modern circuits and some old ones as well.

the way you said "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER" I suspected that was a citation mhhh

Sorry Scott, nothing can replace a full bridge rectifier.

Luckily nothing exploded°! :)

The differences in efficiency all comes down to voltage:  Silicon diodes are always going to drop around 0.6 volts in the forward direction.  A 240 volt circuit will lose about 1.2/240 volts = 0.5%.  A 24 volt circuit will lose about 1.2/24 volts = 5%.  Another way around this is to use Germanium diodes that only drop around 0.2 volts.

I can see manufacturer's using this to lower power consumption to meet some Gov't Regulations or to one up competition for the most efficient device.

You need rectifier diode to switch MOSFETs rectifier.

Something to be said about the old method... simplicity... less parts to fail.

good for low voltage applications, at 220v 1v loses mean 0.5%

In Brazil, the largest TV Channel was not the first to exist. There were other companies broadcasting before TV Globo started. The owner hired to  head the new company: Walter Clark and Boni. The importance of company is made evident by the fact everybody in Brazil knows who one of the executives  is - no last name required! (well ... Boni is short for Bonifácio, his last name)

Those two guys realized that the public would choose the channel with best sound and image quality. They copied the BBC standard and bought only the best equipment and the most powerful transmitters. During the 1980s, the final chapter of some soap operas¹ reached over 90% of the audience. In 1989 they changed the outcome of the elections by carefully editing the previous evening Presidential debate for their nightly news.

Your videos are good. I noticed, however, how carefully done the editing, graphics and sound is - that part is extremely good. It's so good I found myself watching something I already new to almost the end. BTW, those graphic features that you do when you draw the circuits are fantastic - and you have a good drawing hand!

I think the classic diode rectifier is better for low current applications. Because power loss in case of pc power supply is quite small only 2-3W.  But if current is high (10 A or higher) active full bridge rectifier is better.

What we really want is a microcontroller ic which has a built in 24v DC or 80-250v AC supply and isolated IO.

I will stick with the FBR!

@ 7:22. RIP fuse :(

To be correct that should be a "Full WAVE bridge rectifier" as distinct from "half wave"

@7:20 it looks like the fuse blew.

I advise that they be put in a plug-in board, which of course they won't.  With complexity comes eventual failure. We already see plenty of very expensive stuff, like FET microphones where the parts are no longer made. and so a whole new circuit must be made. I also see plenty of older consumer stuff where the power supply regulator has failed.

Please do Collab video with electroboom🥺

On Board Chargers, Fast chargers, auxiliary power supplies in electric vehicles.

What is the software you use to draw the diagram ?
Is it Altium ?

The circuitry required to manage the MOSFETs uses more power than the .7 voltage drop of a silicon diode looses.

The Rectifier will come for you when you least expect it ;)

Good video, but what about trying to put several diodes in parallel in the diode bridge to minimize voltage losses? that is, instead of 4 diodes, use 16 diodes... 4x4 in parallel on the bridge...?

The losses in the stabiliser, even in a switching regulator, will always be higher than those in the rectifier. So, a synchronous rectifier will not improve the situation much.
Different the situation when the rectifier is part of an high frequency DC-DC converter, where you have 200 KHz 12 Vac: here the sync rectifier can change the efficiency from 70% to 95%...

full bridge series rectifier but its laser etched into a roll of kapton tape as graphene wiring so the entire roll is a multiplier

These have advantages, but add more components and of course reliability drops off. I like the efficiency but know the problems with power MOSFETS too well. Many are unreliable due to cheap manufacturing processes. Also very susceptible to lightning/power surges. Bridge diodes often survive power surges or save the device being hit by shorting and opening the fuse. Mosfets dont like overvoltage or overcurrent for more than a few MS. I was hoping by now we would have almost indestructable FET's like we have bipolar devices. Power FETs have grown by leaps and bounds but their reliability has slipped, compounded by average engineers using too small current capacity transistor for the circuit to save pennies. Thanks for the heads up, havent seen this yet, bet I will be seeing it in newer power supplies, in the next few years.

maybe they would be nice for a car's or a bike's charging system?

I see this video is a year old and has a ton of comments, so probably someone has already raised this issue.  One huge difference between between the diode bridge and the MOSFET bridge is that the diode bridge only allows current flow in one direction (input -> output), where the MOSFET bridge allows current flow in both directions (input <-> output).  This is why the fuse blew with the large capacitive load, since large currents are flowing in and out of the load capacitor.  This can be addressed by using a fancier gate controller that shuts off one of the MOSFETs when the input voltage drops below the voltage on the output load capacitor.  This can work ok at 50/60Hz mains frequency with clean waveforms, but gets much more difficult at higher frequencies.

The MOSFET bridge is actually an old idea.  I've simpler circuits (no controller IC) that use two N-channel MOSFETs and two P-channel MOSFETs with the gates simply cross-coupled directly to the input.  This circuit was sometimes used to allow a low-voltage DC-input device to work independently of the polarity of the DC input voltage, which was handy since barrel connectors could be either center-positive or center-negative.  It still had the problem of blowing the input fuse if connected to an AC input, though.

can you, for low currents use led's instead of diodes? I dont know, i've thought about it and it makes sense to me

faz o teste em 110V

What you are calling as active rectifier is actually a full controlled bridge rectifier. Larger versions are used in large scale applications like HVDC transmission line and trains to feed the modern traction converters.

❤❤❤

Please can you explain how cdi work and how make simple one

It would be useful have just a single diode Moss controller as if you use a mosfet it will still let current flow back the other way if power is still on the output side. Perhaps some circuit or ic two simply control a mosfet and turn it into a perfect diode. The low voltage high current is the scenario where a diode is very bad. And wear a mosfet is far superior. Diodes for high current applications are really big

There may be an efficiency loss but i dont see the full bridge rectifier becoming obsolete outside of high power applications

Ayo Boom

How to run a floppy drive BLDC motor without esc

well the list price on mouser is Eur 195....so that makes the choice of using this active rectifier or not quite easy.

Would of been cool if you showed the power factor

I can't remember where but I think I've seen a similar design where the gate pins were connected to ground.
would that even work?

I see the standard bridge rectifier ruling the low-ish power, cheaper stuff for a good while still. In my opinion, the efficiency gains is not worth the complexity, potential higher failure rate and extra cost of the active solution. But as usual it's a question of balancing many parameters, and it probably makes sense and already exists in higher power or specific applications.

This rectifier costs more than the power supply in most cases, reminds me of those poor tube rectifiers in vintage amps.

With high voltage, the diode voltage drop is insignificant. 
With low voltage, high amps, the mosfet resistance becomes an issue.

Already used since many years inside inverter....

Hi. Just found your channel. Which software do you use for doing the drawings please?

They great for low voltage high and high amp AC applications , are there any ?

Can u build a circuit that comes on every half hour timer circuit need to use it on a water pump that comes on every half hour

But doesn't the current flow the opposite direction of the arrows for the diodes in the diagrams.

Is there some kind of bootstrap voltage here to make sure the mosfets are fully conducting?

It's a very Interesting question wether which components contribute to a more or less efficient power-supply, which ponder every now and then. Is it something you might adress in a future video which components generally represent the largest loss in say shoddy supplies And what would generally improve efficiency? This is of course a very individual question depending entirely on power-supplies in question, but i do dream of upgrading every supply in my home to a near lossless supply one day

is it possible for you to build bob beck blood pulsar its circuit is on the net.

I wonder when every power supply will have these by default?
It seems the next step in the psu evolution.

In case of ferrite core inverter can we use it

Why is the sine wave of your power source distorted - almost look like clipping distortion?

Why you didn't use the Variac to test the 230VAC?

@7:49 you discussed boost-type power factor. Can you elaborate on what that is? My issue is sometimes the wording in datasheets confuse me.

How does this compare to a full wave rectifier made with two diodes and a center tap transformer?  Especially a regulating transformer.

Could you please do a video converting an old laptop adapter (charger) to a USB c laptop adapter (charger)? The USB c adapter should produce only a sing voltage value, for example, 19 volts (for simplicity). I need to use my old laptop adapters to charge my new USB c (thunderbolt) laptop

In which consumer appliances,it is used?

Yes they come with a voltage drop, but you can mitigate that voltage drop by using high power schottkey diodes. Assuming they can handle the reverse voltage. You'd still have a Vfwd of maybe 300mw but it's a lot better than the ~1 volt for PN junction diodes. And I don't believe schottkeys are much more expensive. The only inferior aspect of them I can think is that MAYBE they might not be able to handle the same reverse voltage. But I'd have to look that up to be sure. But a few hundred volts is peanuts for most rectifier diodes. So they'd have to be comparable.

I thought switching power supplies replaced everything a while back.

What is the model number for that AC outlet breakout box you have test leads plugged into!?!?!? Want (a U.S. version)!!!

The really old way of rectifying AC to DC was by using an AC synchronous electric motor connected mechanically to rotating contacts kinda like an inverted armature.
This active rectifier kinda feel like the solid-state version of that old mechanical rectifier.

Can it works with high freq ac? I wanna replace fast diode inside my SMPS with the better ones

Boooring. Mercury-arc rectifier is clearly king of archaic rectifiers.

Active rectification sounds like asking for trouble for minimal gains in most applications. But yeah another piece that gets over-engineered and then oups why do our electronic stuff die so quickly??

Only works for low power supplies not for trains or HP applications

I'd be chasing regulation of the power transformer first

Türkçe altyazı olsa, çok iyi olurdu.

God this breathing-through-mouth sound is making me go insane 🥲

There are multiple points here to pin out. 
# FBR is bulletproof and low cost solution - more conponents = higher failure rate
# I like the idea of using synchronous (active) rectifiers on the secondary side of the tranformer in converters -the waveform is not sine but more square/rectagular what is sensed much easier a nd usually there are enough swithing time between power path via transistors
# Designers should focus on efficient power supply design  but i see even from renowned manufacturer its a disaster (not all of them)

More complex scematics leads to more points of failure :)

The full bridge MOSFETifier rectifier

Great video.  I guess it's your goals...  Old school rectifiers are cheeeep.  Active rectifier is much more expensive.

Altium prices are always very high, and most of the time prohibitive prices for countries like Brazil.

No this can't be possible, i cant live without electroboom saying FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

It seemed like you used the active rectifier on the input (mains) side of the power supply. The output side would probably benefit more from the higher rectification efficiency since the output current is much higher. Also the fact that your mains voltage is higher in Europe, diminishes the  benefit of higher rectification efficiency since the input current would be half of what we get on 120v mains here in the US.

The thing with active rectifiers is if they are not perfect, and possibly even if they are, they can have very fiery and explosive failures. I've been seeing them quite often lately.

Those chips are quite expensive, hard to justify the additional cost.

More efficiency sacrifices stability and reliability, if that mosfet driver fails even for a nano second instant explosion, fullbridge rectifier is far more safer in comparison with its efficiency

You should have compared the efficiency losses,  rather than efficiencies. Going from 94% efficient to 97% efficient doesn't seem like that big of a deal, but cutting losses from 6% to 3% reveals it is a big deal, because that's half as much waste heat you have to dissipate. That means you can package it much smaller.

Samsung has been using this component in there chargers for a long time. I broke a 5W charger at 2014 and i found that.

8:45 that's looks like one really crap PFC circuit.

Maybe the caps were screwing with the Vgs on one or more of the mosfets. Did you use a temperature gun to see if they're all heating up at the same rate under different types of tests?

I wonder how more efficient are the GaNFETs if they are used for this application compared to the traditional MOSFETs.

older PFC-less SMPS in 120v countries had their input diodes reconfigurable as voltage doublers that performed rectification at the same time via a switch on the back. There would be two storage caps that would end up in series for 120V mode. So more than double the ripple but the primary side saw about the same voltage and average current in either case.

I already hear Mehdi knocking on your door. "What do you mean the end of full bridge rectifier?"

Wasn't there a Mr Occam who said something about this - while he was shaving, I think?

Substitute FERD diodes to make a regular bridge better.  And they work for 3 phase.

For low power electronics driving fets is less efficiënt than diodes.

You do not have to use M-FETs; in older circuits I saw the use of SRCs, which also increase the efficiency of the rectifier. The reason this not wildly used is because of RF noise the switching creates, that requires extra components and/or shielding is required. The losses are not considerable for most applications, since we use stationary AC. Unless you use high power device such as a DC motor the extra cost and maintenance negate the M-FET solution as too expensive.

So this would be good for smartphone chargers?

you forgetting thyristor rectifiers. (welding machines, dc-plants, etc)

Sad electroBOOM noises

فنان

Can you do this with light emitting diodes?

At least it’s loss is way less than a single diode, also it is way less complicated, as well as it is easier to make one for high currents

material cost is the most important to make products.
bridge rectifier is USD0.3, synchronous rectifier is USD10>.

And how high is the ripple current, EMI? Surely needs chokes and additional filters as well..

@5:10 from AC voltage to McDonald's! Yummy

need zero crossing detectors

This would be really interesting for electrolysis. Rewind a microwave transformer for 6 volt, slap on one of these and you are ready to run a bootleg downs cell at 150 amps.

Can the TEA2208T be paralled to increase the current capability?

What about using 4 FBR in a FBR setup ???

👍👌👍

Oh damn!
i ran a direct power supply of 6A to an LED light 16x32 matrix the other day and i blew one of the capacitors. really stupid but i had a ball. the power supply was already converting the signal to DC tho
could i use this? would u recommend something different?

Hello scott, I made a ferrite core inverter based on the sg3525, in the end I employed a FBR and got 220Vdc, I would want to obtain 220Vac at 50Hz... How may I go about this?

what is that load generator? I've been looking for something like that.

So active rectifier is ideal for car chargers where 3-Phase AC goes to directly High current DC load continuously?

did the fuse blow @7:21 . if not what was the flash

How do the body diodes of the mosfets interact within the circuit

How will this help or hurt the power factor?

So is that switched mode rectification? How do you get rid of all the high frequency switching noise?

Ok but how can this help me with the Rectification of the Vuldronaii.

But what about if you connytge prairie

Well I appear to be lost made a wrong turn and ended up here... Now my brains hurtie.

How to obtain clean DC without ripples or distortion? Will Power Factor Corrector help....

If a short occurs what is going to happen. It is going to blow a fuse? I think that a SCR  will do a better job.

Hi m8 are they much lower in noise? I use audio equipment  and reduction in noise is always welcome

What about high voltage. And or higher amps. I know about the switchers with 10 to 15 dc volts with 30 or more amps. Stacked with each same volts you can get higher amp output. 1 stacked 7 / 30 amp switchers to get 14.2 at 210 amps. Works good to power a large linear amplifier . Solid state devices.  What about high voltage AC to DC filtered B+ for tube applications.

can you use 4 diodes to exite de mosfets

Wait but switching power supplies have been around a long time and have replaced most older diode rectified power supplies already?

What's wrong with voltage-doubling rectifiers? Fewer components too

Did you connect your oscilloscope to the mains (via a rectifier and variac) without an isolation transformer?!

For designing a voltage Multiplier upwards of 1KV, will Active rectifier be more efficient in such a scenario ? Thanks

Thanks Scott! Excellent video. Do you know if there is an active rectifier for 3 Phase Rectification? I assume so, but I'd need some help figuring it out;

I'm not Scott but i will try to answer your question. There are various types of 3 phase active rectifiers, some of them have an unidirectional power flow from the electrical grid to the load (Viena Rectifier for example) achieving a very low harmonic distorsion and very good power factor. Other are bidirectional using a 3 phase inverters thanks to the antiparallel configuration of the IGBT/MOSFET and the diodes, if you want to learn more search about a "back to back" configuration of inverters :)

How can anyone hold a pen like that? Seven hells. :-)

Looks Electroboom intro

Full wave rectifier of Bridge rectifier.
Sorry but it erks somewhat..
That said several years back I modified diode packs from a couple of car battery lithium jump packs as a bridge to reduce loss but never took took it further than rudimentary low voltage tests.
Interesting😊

6:40 "2 to 4 percent" isn't doing any justice to these already amazing results IMHO :-) it's more impressive if you instead calculate waste (100% - efficiency) and notice that the active version has 1-2% losses to the 2-6% of the full bridge rectifier, which means it's 2 or 3x more efficient!

I think you forgot to gate your voice recording to remove the breath noise

Way more components means more component and manufacturing costs for the manufacturer. Who are perhaps more concerned with that, than the final efficiency.

Even mini transformers have a power loss, so the most practical idea is best.

Can’t wait to read the comment of ELECTROBOOM. Where are you?

Let's experiment with GaNFETs next time.

Use 4  schottky diode

By the way, computer powersupplies, with 80+ Titanium Efficiency rating use active bridge rectifier.

It is always good to test new ideas but no one will use it because it adds more cost to the circuit with a little more efficiency.

maybe i've missed that, did calculation inlcude power consumption of the new rectifier itself ?

Surely a soft start on the caps?

Why not Schottky bridge rectifiers as an interim between silicon bridge rectifiers and Active bridges?

FOOOL BRIIGEE RECTIFAYAAAAA

7:33 I wonder, if you had of added a regular full bridge rectifier in between the capacitors, would of that prevented it from a short circuit..?

FBRs and OEBs (one eye brows) forever!

never mind all that the really important question is how much do you spend on highlighters in a year?

they work best for POE circuits

So active rectifiers are only beneficial in low voltage AC to DC power supplies. For mains voltage levels the power losses for the 0.7V drop across standard diodes is insignificant.

2:28 I don't think It's drawn like that very often - which is a shame. Consider putting the ac source inside the diode bridge legs for even prettier/easier to understand drawing.

Active rectifiers make a lot more sense in linear power supplies.

They will come up with new generation diodes that have voltage drop below 0.1V

so this is a great idea, but if you use the triac component.. you can make the simple schematic with less complexity

If you placed diodes in parallel with the MOSFETs, would that increase voltage loss? Or would it go through the path of least resistance, with the diodes basically acting as a "in case of emergency"

I would also point out how much space is saved by not using an active rectifier. I think that alone makes it worth it.

If you're going to go as far as actively driven MOSFETs to rectify AC, may as well just design a PFC.

Hello, When you can try to use full controlled three phase bridge rectifier to make an MPPT for your wind turbine?

You must be from Deutschland as you speak English with an accent and it sounds German.  I didn't know there was a replacement for a full wave bridge rectifier.  I use them in my HO scale modeling.  Mein Deutsch is nict so gut.  MOSFET's are more expensive than full wave bridge rectifiers.  Cheers from eastern Tennessee

MOSFET gates are high impedance and very sensitive to transient spikes, that would likely cause the FET to turn on at inopportune times (short ckt conditions).. not a good device for direct mains connection. A FWB with good filtering is still the mainstream choice today.

Wouldn't a Schottky diode be very advantageous at lower voltages due to it's ~0.3v lower voltage drop?

What if there were capacitors on each diode of the full bridge rectifier?

Noice.

why not juts FBR high deficiency diodes-FBR ?

Active rectification is a difficult thing as your input frequencies go up

2:54. I’d like to buy you a green (any other color than red) pen.

Could capacitor surge's not be smoothed out by inductor's or something.. ❓

I still am not sure about the application. cause the wires of low voltage high current DC is so resistive that makes the benefit of this rectifire negligable. It's like putting a no smoking sign next to the lava river.

For low voltage apps, for years I have used schottky diode packs to make rectifiers.
Try TO-220 pack 3pin dual-diodes, you need one in AKA pinout and one in KAK pinout.
At a couple of amps they only drop about 0.16v per diode compared to the typical rectifier maybe 1v per diode.
And two TO-220 packs is compact and has convenient wiring.

The problem with Schottky rectifiers is their low reverse resistance.

 @QF2653    ...   not a problem when used as low voltage rectifiers. 👍

Sure your option is good. At high currents, the drop voltage on Schottky increases to 1V, need to use high current Schottky, the circuit from the video is reasonable for 30A and above.

 @gherbent  ...  correct, I use 16A TO-220 schottkys which are cheap, 2 of them for maybe a buck if you buy them in bulk packs.
And 16A schottkys passing a couple of amps are usually very low forward drop, 0.14 to 0.16v.
Needs no heatsinking, but be careful the KAK pack has the tag at V+ potential, so if you screw the 2 packs to the cabinet for convenience use a plastic cabinet etc.

What is its maximum switching speed, and will some variant of this type trigger at millivolts? I can visualize it being useful for demodulating radio signals without throwing away half the carrier.

It's an Active Full Bridge. Also how H Bridge output stages work.

Why not use Schottky Barrier diodes, as replacements for standard diodes for simplicity and low losses? Or are they not available at reasonable prices for higher power applications?

What's the efficiency difference for North American 110V AC mains?

Is that the fuse blowing at 7:21?

Which pens do u use . I really like them

Can you go back to highlighting until the ink runs?

Why so complicated ? Where there is a lot in it, a lot can go wrong. 1. Also, how much does a rectifier cost in relation to 4 MOSFETs?
2. You also need more space, so what's the point?

hi, great videos. What software are you using in the video? I use multisim but I'm looking to try  other simulation software. thanx.

Top

Is it not possible to use an LCRC tank in parallel after normal full bridge rectification to bring current and voltage levels back to where they should be in order to help mitigate power loss? This way you still have the resistive side to make the active rectifier work without the issues that comes with capacitive loads?

With the 24V test the AC voltage the current it is not the main issue. Instead, it is the low voltage. Diodes take around 0.7V off the voltage. That means for a normal FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER the voltage drop is 1.4V. No matter the main voltage. So, if the main voltage in 24V, the drop is higher percentagewise than when you use the voltage ten times higher.
Now count in the lower current for the same energy, and you know why using 240V is way more sensible than using 24V for long distances. 😉

what if u use a full bridge rectifier as a switch /relay to turn on the mosfets which does the switching? eh?

You can do that with only 2 mosfets, 2 jfets and no ICs, it should be much safer.

I have a Question, with this dc full bridge rec, how much supply voltage do you need for a 12V output?
I tried this with a 12V AC transformer and got only 5V out. So there is a significant voltage drop.
Is there a way to do this without such a voltage drop or do I need a stronger transformer?

What happens if the mains frequency changes? How resilient is an active rectifier vs a FBR to drift?

Try SOS switch mode power supply i was make one and only take 10$ for 1000watt

Does this active rectification circuit emit RF noise?

6:42 why do both get less efficient if you increase the power output?

What about active rectifier in the output stage , usually dealing with lower output voltages ?  Isn't it a better advantage in terms of power savings ?  It would be nice to hear your considerations.

I think these are not more popular for main level AC rectification for safety reasons.  Are these control circuits properly tested when there’s transient noise on the line or during disturbances that can occur during a power outage?  Personally I’d be really cautious using these because they seem useful only for high current loads and also seem sensitive to transient current peaks coming from the load.  However they might be useful when the rectifier is on the low voltage secondary side of a power transformer.

For very high currents mosfet based rectifiers are NOT more efficient than a diode based rectifier. Suppose the on resistance is 25m0hm, that will be more than 0.7 V at 30A. At very high currents would need to go to an IGBT based solution.

I'm surprised you did not compare a MOSFET design to a Schottky Diode full wave bridge.  That would have about half the loss of a normal silicon diode bridge.

so where is the link for the active rectifier

What environment do you use for SPICE?

The voltage drop of about 1v of full bridge rectifier in High voltage side 230v, the loss is negligible, lets say power supply 100w, (1/230v)*100w=0.435w, less than 0.5%, no need to complicate the circuit

And imagine havng no bridge rectifier at all, just let the mosfets be the first stage of a PFC converter!

That's also a full bridge rectifier, except it is just an active one

I great video, however, just another example of technology gone made and, what about the cost of the IC and 4 MOSFETS

H bridge rectifier.
the common diodes at high frequencies work poorly, due to the slow recovery time.

Kind of sad that mehdi did not make a response video.

Just wait. Mehdi will fly to Saxony and knock on your door at exactly 3 in the morning with thunder and lightning.

I was expecting something to blow up too much

Can this also compare with low-drop (and faster switching) Schottky-Diodes if being used for FBR purposes ? Are these still somewhat more efficient in comparison to standard diodes?

I don´t care about the power loss. What bugs me is the flat tops and bottoms on the incoming mains AC, because that means HF noise, and I am primarily working
with audio. We can put anti ringing Zobels on the secondary windings of the power transformer, to lower transformer ringing, but a nicer incoming signal would be
great.

Does anyone know if a computer UPS (Un-interuptable Power Supply), generates better sinus curve output, without harmonic content?

Why not a passive full wave rectifier with only P and  N type Mosfets?

If i use 2 rectifier in parallel, doesn't that make it 50% more efficient?

You can't use active rectification everywhere so electric boom still rains. Active rectification is only good at low voltage High amperage you can still use diodes in high voltage circuits and obtain good efficiency high voltage circuits means like 50 volts and higher.

A switching power supply has two FBR at least. What is the maximum frequency the active rectifier can work at? Could it handle the high frequency of the low voltage/high current output side of the power supply, or is it only available for 50/60Hz?

Hello, this rectifier can work with high frequency sin wave?

In three phases diagram all you need is shifting the phase of neutral then you can get nearly perfect dc without the need for diode many way to do this but it should not be done alone at home without proper instruction and so no discussion here but bridge rectifier is no needed

The IC adds $7.00 to the COST!!! Then add the cost of 4 x MOSFETs and 2 capacitors.  Meanwhile, a FBR can be as low as $0.50 ...

expert in electricity: i want to put some power diode on a ebike battery pack composed of multiple power tool ball (to prevent them discharging into another if theyre not same voltage, i was going to put 1 diode on one cable of each pack to alow them only to discharge, but is there a way to avoid the 0.7 volt of drop from the diode? cuz the batt pack are 5s i use it in 10s meaning there is so 2 diode on the path and will cauze a vdrop of 1.4 volt wich beging to be a litle anoying

For simplicity the FBR will never be replaced. I can see Schottky diodes used instead of normal rectifiers. Putting multiple diodes in parallel will also decrease  the effective voltage drop and increase the total current handling capacity.  Like on a solar cell, increasing the conductive area does not increase voltage per one cell. Likewise increasing the conductive area on a single diode also will not decrease its  junction voltage drop. If you don't believe me then try a diode test on a DVM with a single diode and then multiple diodes in parallel. I am not a fan off MOSFETs in power circuits, because they tend to fail closed, or sometimes blow apart. If they failed open that would be better. If every volt counts especially in voltage generation like solar cells then putting  multiple diodes in parallel in place of a single blocking diode will increase efficiency and decrease poet loss as end example.

I have always (60 years) known them as full 'wave' bridge rectifiers. What's a full bridge? What are they bridging? I wonder when we lost the word 'wave', and why?

Can't you drive the MOSFETs with a parallel full bridge rectifier?

The main problem with active mains rectification is the large price difference between diodes and MOSFETs with low Rds(on) and high voltage rating.
Active mains rectification is simply far to expensive for almost everything that can be plugged into a normal power outlet.

To use an active rectifying circuit or diodes comes down to two more factors: cost and size. Diodes are inexpensive and don't take much landscape up.

And it would be even more efficient for the mains when there's 240 volts

Cost vs efficiency

thanks scott! I am trying to build a 400vdc POWER SUPPLY with these active rectifiers, I can not find this controller IC , I wonder which other Controller i can use to drive these MOSFETS, not sure if i can use Arduino nano, please say something or anyone

Dude PLEASEEE someone tell me what that thing at 6:09 is. The load module that measure current, voltage temperature and whatnot. What is the name? Is it available to purchase online or is it DIY?

Sir Do me a favour? if you can, Please find the 32hd05s4lv0.0 T-con Board Schematic For me? No where to find it? Thanks.

Did you blow a fuse between 7:21 and 7:23? The green flash is ominous.

Why is nobody calling it "Graetz Bruecke" anymore? The radio manufacturere Graetz is long gone, but the term named after him survived a long time. Back when I was a boy there wasnt even another term in common use...

I would say low power devices i would go diodes any day due if mosfet loses capability to switch they can kill device or at least themselves.

Active rectification has been around a while various ways AFAIK. I doubt the FWBR is going anywhere any time soon since it's too easy and cost effective for low power.

diy or by pc power supplely ????

imagine, how much bridge rectifiers you can buy for a price of a single MOSFET )

He was me thinking  this was about  penal rectification 😒

@Christopher Grant I have seen many fail in digital circuits like on motherboards. I have also replaced more than my fair share of Pinball coil drivers.  MOSFETs do have a use, but not if they are overdriven, as cheap designers always do.

Agreed.

I don't know if anybody here can answer this but whenever I test my Full Wave Rectifier on Oscilloscope, it always gives me a Half Wave output. I know I built it correctly, its not hard, but what is going on?

How about integrate everything and just run the inductor of a current mode buck converter directly from the ac? Of course the duty cycle would have to compensate for the ac wave timing but that would make a very small and minimalist PS. Has anyone ever tried this? Is it even possible?

I have had the idea for a long time to use something like this to build a loudspeaker chassis that does not need a permanent magnet. The DC signal would then go to a second coil to replace the magnet. But I also think that the speaker could sound quite distorted afterwards. But at least it would be light.

hi sir how can i speak with you?

Aren't mosfets static sensitive?

I can see an obvious reason for an IC that only allows replacing the lower side diodes with FETs.  It doesn't have to get the timing as precisely correct to avoid shorting out the mains.

What in real life is there a very low voltage with high flow current?

What's that load you used?  Is it off the shelf?

AC is more dangerous than DC but if you have just recified AC is it safer or not?

Did you get your name from the  Delorean from back to the future?

What happened with the capacitor bank was an initial current surge.  Capacitors will act like short circuits at start up if there isn't an impedance in series to control the initial charging current.

RIP Fool Bridge Rectumfriers.

break-through coming soon "no wave rectifier"

@electroBoom gone be mad. Lol

depends, is 4 diodes cheaper than this?

How do you have nice handwriting AND are left handed?

Wait until @electroboom sees this video 😂

Your in person direct to camera explanation voice is soothing and clam to listen as it sounds more natural than your scripted robotic speech. So consider to change your video format .

Electroboom is going to be very very sad after this

👍👍😆

Running the second coil from rectifying the audio signal will cause distortion. But good sounding speakers without permanent magnets isn't a new idea. Before modern magnet technology radio speakers used what is often called an electrodynamic speaker. They have a field coil which runs on a separate pair of wires so it can be continuously powered.

 @eDoc2020  Do you think a DSP could distort the signal beforehand so that it inverses the distortion such the speaker would produce?

That's not much of an issue. I suspect the real reason is cost. A chip controlling the low side only deals with 15 or so volts. A chip controlling all four rectifier FETs needs high voltage high side drivers which probably take up much more die space and/or require different manufacturing processes.

No, it's a continuous current surge. I believe the active rectifier remains on during the falling part of the waveform which means it would discharge the capacitor in the second half of each half cycle. Continually charging and discharging large capacitors 100 times a second causes a huge amount of reactive power.

 @eDoc2020  that's possible.  I was under the impression that the control circuit monitored the output side to ensure that the current only flowed on 1 direction.  I may have missed something

what's there? a fuse!
and what is it for? it makes light
https://youtu.be/S0j4xOuRzD4?t=441

Ist das nicht eine Art H-Brücke?

lol, tu va prendre un coup de sourcils ^^

I think active rectifiers will only be useful on high power power supplies (which usually also have active PFC in them) like server power supplies.
In a small power supply, as described in the video, the current through the rectifier is too small. And it is very rare for a small power supply to use PFC.

Tell me he didn't just say that!

Mosfet fail when they even smell an electrostatic discharge. Like a lightening strike. How do they fail? By going short. 😂

Not only that the efficiency is minuscule, the price is higher and the space it occupies is a lot bigger. Sorry Scott, ''FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER'''  wins!!!!

I’ll stick with my mercury arc rectifier, thanks

I came here to see if this thing pukes RF all over the place like cheap switching supplies do. Maybe make a video testing that?

I hate you....your drawings are flawless. JK buddy, they are super impressive.

Think about using it in the car alternator... 55A or more is common and at ~14V

0.21W*10h*5=10W/week. = 500W per year. 
Cost of mafucfuting inrease 1 cent per rectifier + you can make like BUCK converter in to IC 
240ac => 12 DC in 10 cent IC no coils and more efective 
 :)

Use a shottkey full wave bridge, better efficiency...

Where are the explosions, where are the electric shocks? Just knowledge. Good job too.

As shown by the measurement results, not an economical choice at higher voltages, where the 2 * 0.7 V drop (approximate, or rule of thumb) can easily be tolerated.  But why the active bridge rectifier was developed was when the CPU voltages started dropping below 5 V and they became absolutely mandatory when CPUs became progressively lower in voltage.  Think in terms of 1.8 V or even lower!  Moreover, think what an 80 W CPU would ask in current..  You would be dealing with over 40 A.  1.4 V * 40 A = 56 W of losses.  Also, at that current even pretty big diodes start dropping about 1 V rather than the 0.7 V.  Of course, there are Schottky diodes, with their 0.2 to 0.4 V drop per diode, but that still remains an intolerable loss of efficiency.

Why some people would like to overcomplicate something so simple that works very well for over 100 years?

I’m sad not to see electroBOOM in the comments

Where is electroboom

Hahaha, it is ok to see a nice joke sometimes

No no the real old school full bridge rectifier is a 'mercury arc rectifier' lo

Fast charging of electric cars will need big DC power

MOSFETs act like low-value resistors when fully on. So the loses, that voltage that develops across them, is described by Ohm's Law and increases with current. So eventually the simple ohmic losses would be greater than the (mostly) constant diode voltage drop. If you have a MOSFET with a 0.015 ohm fully-on resistance (a reasonable figure for a 55amp device) then the voltage drop is 0.015 ohm * 55 amps = 0.83 volts. That sounds like a plain ol' silicon rectifier diode.

 @alecdacyczyn  Good point! If it s like 0.015 ohm it is almost identical to the STBR6008-Y diode from ST. When using more than 55A, it would be better to have the diodes...
Comparing against SCT011H75G3AG mosfet...
What about more than 1 mosfet in parallel?

Yes yes, increase efficiency, reduce power losses... Data centers need all the power that I save and my electricity bills go up, regardless!

Schottky FBR is much more efficient, cheaper, smaller, and reliable.

Half wave with a big enough cap works just as well, but less efficient.

2:45 Looks like you have a Muehrcke line on your nails. This could be a sign of low levels of protein in your blood

I don’t prefer active bridge because of EMI, cost and surge resistance.
If the cooling condition is able to cool down the system, it is safer to use traditional full bridge rectifiers.

put it on secondary side

this is the way electric vehicles transform DC-AC and AC-DC

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vibrator_(electronic)

They might not be efficient, but man those big PN junctions are rugged… not sure the sensitive MOS switches are great for all applications or necessary when switching power supplies with 95+% efficient operation are available…

CMOSFET   to replace full bridge rectifier ?  then this is the beginning of the soft start DC power supply.

"FUUULLL BRIDGEEE RECTIFIERRRRRRR" -ElectroBOOM

It's not really fair to measure how much the efficiency increases, it's more relevant to measure how much the losses decrease. If you increase the efficiency from 90 to 91%, you have reduced the losses by 10%. That means 10% less power wasted as heat. That's suddenly a pretty big difference.

Can we expect a youtube war?

Centre-tapped full-wave rectifier ??

schotty or germanium diodes

That's Betteridge's law in action right there - one needs not watch any of the video to know the answer to any headline formulated as a question is invariably "NO". Never mind that the question is silly anyway - are switching power supplies "better" than transformer-based ones? Yes! So are transformers used as power supplies completely extinct then? HELL NO. There you go...

I think standard diodes are simple and cheap. No real need to  make it more complicated. BTW, we call it a "full-wave" bridge rectifier.

Old music was cool! Maybe use it sometimes?

I thought great Scott was Asian,from the accent and the way he used maths in video...😆 never judge a book by its cover

Active Rectifiers have their place in applications, however, I would always prefer a "simple" FBR over a active rectifier just because it's easy to repair / replace, made on the fly out of diodes, the issues why they're breaking down is well known, and they're cheap.

wonderful video. i would also like to know the cost v. performance metric. the full bridge is very cheap. is the mosfet much more expensive? is there a use case where the efficiency justifies the expense? great work and continued success!

I wonder how much fuel you could save for doing this upgrade to your cars alternator

What about using Shottky diodes instead in a diode bridge? At least halves the loss compared with normal diodes and is a lot less complicted than a MOSFET bridge.

An active full bridge rectifier is still a full bridge rectifier.

Who is also searching for ElectroBOOM's reply?

I can’t afford the $180 they want for the board, and I don’t need 2500 of the chips. So I can’t order the TEA2208T to use in my circuit. You said their chip used a comparator module and mosfets, could you show what that circuit would look like to make it ourselves so I could do a cost comparisonş? Thanks!

Power factor correction is real.  I blew many triacs using zero crossing detectors while trying to drive inductive loads.  Let me break that down.  A triac is like an AC mosfet, it can conduct in both directions, but when the voltage goes to zero, you have to "turn it back on" and this happens 60 times a second with mains voltage.  The zero crossing detector will detect when mains or AC voltage crosses from plus to minus or minus to plus, to turn the triac on.  For resistive loads, this works like a charm.  Any time I attached something with a power factor, my triacs would break, and stay permanently closed/fused.  This included power tools with motors, or large CRTs (Cathode Ray Tubes, computer screens of the previous millennium), or anything with a large power factor aka inductive load.  This is because, while current and voltage are in-phase for resistive loads, they got out of phase in inductive loads, so my zero crossing detector would try to go off while current was flowing through the triac.  Bang, triac dead.  GreatScott, a video on this effect would be very useful.  Also a full bridge rectifier does not suffer from a power factor / inductive load, since it is a passive component, and thus a good choice.  Even linear regulators like the venerable 7805 have a place where rock steady voltage is required, like audio projects.

End of the full bridge rectifier?

*Angry monobrow noises*

thats a lot more too go wrong ?

can you create ~100 KW DC charger for EV from scratch?

The passive mosfet rectifier has nearly same efficiency as active one nowadays and is an actively pursued Area of research in power electronics

Showing current flowing the wrong direction in the diodes.

9:11 Are they still using that yellow glue FFS! It turns short cct after time and causes problems!

NOTIFICATION
Electroboom wants to know your location.
[OK]                      [ALLOW]

4:30

Electroboom .

So basically this active rectifier is almost the same as H-bridge

How's it going after 3 years? Replaced yet?

Watch it bro or your studio gonna blow up by FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!!

Try test this with surge/burst and you might get "electroboom"

Heat. When it is difficult to get rid of heat you might want to get every bit of efficiency. Also even a small heat spreader can easily cost more than a few semiconductors and is much larger.

They are actually used instead of standard 1n400x diodes in switching mode power supplies. Normally, however, the low (20-40v) breakdown voltage makes them unsuitable for such applications. There's a reason Schlottky diodes are called "Small signal fast recovery" diodes in most datasheets!

PFC is a thing for efficient mains power transfer, but for a triac you need a snubber circuit. I think microchip has a app note on snubber circuit design. The snubber allows you to manage dv/dt, allowing the device to remain off.

While MOSFETs can allow you to directly interact with mains current, scrs and triacs do it very well, and are very well understood technology, and are very rugged.

Also in your circuits, were your triacs truly dead, or just stuck till you disconnected the circuit? If dead sounds like you had something else going on... A stuck triac is not a dead triac unless the circuit design allows too much current to flow in stuck case. Like two stuck triacs dead shorting each other...

 @JJJulie-t7e  They were dead.  Yes, I should have used a snubber but my understanding was that a snubber circuit would have to be matched to a specific load factor, that is, there wasn't really a general purpose snubber network.  I gave up and used relays.  It was a simple power delay circuit, using an HV cap to limit current, into a diode, cap, and zener diode as the most janky and dangerous power supply you've ever seen, to go to a 555, the zero crossing detector, and the triac, the 555 configured as a one shot.  This was at least 25 years ago; perhaps modern triacs have overload protection, these certainly did not.

What is passive mosfet rectification?

More that can go wrong.  Besides, most switching power supplies use 1 or 2 diodes as a doubler, which makes over 300 volts DC, albeit chopped up, but that's what capacitors are for.  Not a big fan of over-thinking this very elemental aspect of the work-horse of technology, the power supply.

Medhi!!! HELP!!

i think you mean percent points rather than percent when talking about the efficiency difference....

to build,the cost is very higher.

What drawing software are you using?

Put a normal bridge in parallel. This will lower losses at higher currents.

Me now waiting for mehdi to make a rant video or try making his own circuit sorry if I spelled his name wrong I'm horrible with name

The (Full Bridge) Rectifier with iranian accent got rectified by an active rectifier with german accent.

The cost of the 2208 is rather steep at over £6 :(

Well, at high enough frequency mosfets could become a bit too slow compared to diodes so it's not the end of ffffffuuuuuuullll bbbridge recctifieeer!

It's a full WAVE bridge rectifier.  Or a full wave rectifier if the transformer has a center tap.

Altium looks cool but there is no price anywhere. F that.

Real "great" Schrotti! - RTF would also state: 
 ­ [TEA2208] "Using the TEA2208T with low-ohmic high-voltage external MOSFETs significantly[?] improves the efficiency of the power converter as the typical rectifier diode-forward conduction losses are eliminated. Efficiency can improve up to about 1.4 % at 90 V (AC) mains voltage." 
  (but remember: datasheets are typically always some kind of enthusiastic, presenting only the best sides) - but not cutting out a part of the sine wave and using a "switched resistor" may solve other issues...   
  and thinking about it first, may gain the insight, that a drop of about 1~3 volt (2 diodes Vf, or lower with Schottky's) may only be relevant with low(!) AC voltages (automobile?) and on very high currents? - but not typically with 110 or 230 Vac mains - or what do you think? - oh, no, you didn't...

Nice solution but for consumer electronics it's far too expensive.
A cheap and quite efficient way might be replacing the bridge rectifier with Schottky diodes.
These diodes have a lower voltage drop then usual diodes so they have lower efficiency loss too.

Electroboom XD

I got excited, until I found the price for one of these boards. $150 LOL

Switching power supplies have already eliminated the need for linear power supplies using bridge rectifiers.

Wheres The Rectifier™©® at?

What program were you using to draw the circuit diagram?

what is the website that u used at  2 10?

Is the guy at 1:55 AI-generated?

0:02 you mean a (inhales deeply) FOOOOOL BRIDGE RECTIFAYAHHHHH?

These active rectifiers are only really good when a certain power level is reached, before this normal diodes are cheaper and simpler.

OK, so it's the end of the Full Bridge Rectifier.
But does that include it's siblings:



1) The Fuller Bridge Rectifier?
2) The Fullest Bridge Rectifier?

🤔🤔🤔

Oh foolish soul, thou awakens a slumbering power thou shouldst not have disturbed

This is the problem I see with these circuits: For high voltage circuits, they have marginal improvements, while regular day to day circuits that require a rectifier already draw very little current, so it's marginal improvements cannot be justified to anything other than high current low voltage applications which are not that common.

voice chat would be easier ..

Size and number of components. Better reliability and easy to trace faults. FBR won.

The problem with Full Bridge Rectifier is in the power factor not the efficiency. with Full Bridge Rectifier you can get a PF of around 0.6 while using full active you can go yo to 0.99

Yeh you did right any way electro boom is not a professional so for next time dont take it into account.

Your flow arrows are backwards.

whots withs alls thes ssssss :-) lol

Nice very basic electronics video. Looking at a year of comments and only seeing one or two that hit the 'sweet spot', which is Heat and Efficiency.
One heat: It is an electronics killer. Every 10°C. increase in temperature doubles the rate of failure for anything electronic . How many hours do you want the circuit to perform correctly? Cool it 10° C and you double the life to 'mean failure' (based on Military and Commercial Standards).
You covered the efficiency nicely. A diode has a fixed voltage drop at the current rate being used. At lower voltages, that drop becomes important! If you use a bridge, each side has two diodes which increase the problem. A single diode half wave (or steering diode) is better efficiency than a full wave bridge, but if power is reversed the circuit does not work. That makes it a 'design choice' and you need to prioritize your needs. 
Be aware, adding more electronic components decrease that system's reliability. Based on the system's mission, that may become a huge factor. Oh, generally the more components the higher the system cost.
These are common issues for a system based design and only one choice is not a good answer., you need a bag full.

Why not just use Schottky diodes? Low voltage drop.

Interesting vid.  Reminded me of DiodeGoneWild's 'synchronous diode' vid from a while back;

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FND4CKTwABU

you don't want wet feet and electronics, hahaha

#savefullbridgerectifier

Love those things ... synchronous rectifiers are the the sh!t ... make them more cheap pls.

Thanks but it's too expensive and big.

I'm assuming you're European, and that looks like a Schuko plug for the variac. You probably know what you're doing, and that probe connected to the X terminal is probably to check for neutral. But whenever using a variac with non-polarized plugs, as in Europe, a warning should always be in place that if you flip the plug the wrong way, you will have mains voltage to ground on the output, even if the voltage between the taps is significantly lower (25V in this case). So even if the circuit sees less voltage, you will get the full mains if you touch it. Worth mentioning if you mention using a variac for safety, IMHO.

The overflowing bridge rectifier, of course

Instead of a boost converter I think the real application is in combining these active rectifiers with power-factor-correction

i wonder about this in gaming pcs that draw 500watts or more

This grates me!!! It's a 'full wave rectifier' or it's a 'bridge rectifier', it's not ever a 'full bridge rectified' OK?. Curse you Mehdi..... 😂 😂 😂

That is actually a (reversed) H-bridge?

rectumfrier

I am here untill electroboom drops a comment to this...

Nice and intresting to watch, but in some way not easy to hear, because my ears had often to block your plural s at many words you speak, were i don't expect it to occure.

so this thing would fail with a nice short circuit and possible fire, when the ic fails that controls which one is turned on ?

Would using BJT's be a possible low cost solution to using MOSFET?

The un inverter

How about germanium diode rectifier? Ge diode has forward voltage half (0.3-0.4V) of silicon diode (0.7-0.8V) High power Ge diode = 0.4 V drop at 1A = 0.4W

0:19 This is so not true, it resembles a marketing stunt!! 😂😂😂

F U L L   B R I D G E   R E C T I F I E R

Let me guess... Replaced by a paperclip, right?

It's still a full bridge rectifier, just one that is actively controlled.

I'm sorry.  I just couldn't get passed how you hold a pen.....

Hmm, I don´t understand how the mosfet´s resist to the reverse voltage. Is there any mosfet without body diode?

just on ur thumbnail, no it definitely wont replace it, something as simple as 4 simple diodes to create a "device" will always b used, the active components require more $$$ n complexity, so along more difficult n more expensive to make, there r a lot more points of failure

Note most popular ics  s are on alication for years . Don't  use this .Use what is easy to get The normal  bridge recrifier

Get it right, It's a full bridge rectum fryer.

Active PFC is a boost converter.

High-quality PSUs use a similar technique called "synchronous rectification" used also in DC/DC buck converters.

If the circuit is designed properly it will have a fuse on the input and that would blow before any fire occurs. Of course a passive bridge rectifier never fails........

No. They have the same ~0.7V drop as simple diodes.

You can not find them. Instead, you can use high current  Schottky diodes with even lower drop voltage.

Its true, but with no load

 @Foxy_8796 Touché. That is correct but where is a power supply without load ever used except in a textbook example?
I have no idea why I wrote this comment two years back. I guess that reflects my sense of humour at the time or at the time of writing - which can become weirder and weirder the more youtube videos I have watched at any particular day The brain quickly stops functioning after vegetating in front of a screen for a  while. I have long stopped using emojis too.

The MOSFETs open in the direction of the internal diode, the inverse of normal, or you need to build a circuit with two opposing MOSFETs.

kbp 210

are you from UK?

bring back selenium stacks

This rectifier will show its return of investment only above 20 amps.

I haven't seen Mehdi

I still prefer the Full Bridge Rectum-fryer

You have your current backwards.

I got news for you I been an electronics engineer for 47 years mosfets fail quite often and very static sensitive.  For all the more efficiently you claim without the voltage drop its not worth the reliability factor. Sure you will see some going this way but, old school bridges are still better in  reliability .  Those are the facts

If it could pass EMC testing, then it would be awesome.

Where is the FULL BRIDGE SHAKING ?  😂

tsssssssssss

A rectifier with short circuit is a rectifire.

Not really worth it; besides the low gain in efficiency for mains ac rectification you obtained with your tests, keep in mind the high risk of the control circuitry failing or even worse, one of the mosfets shorting (which is a matter of when, not "if") would have catastrophic consequences.This adds a lot of complexity and price, so the old 4 passive diode rectifier still reigns, imho.

Waaaaaaaait a minute... this is just an H-Bridge in reverse?!?!

@ElectroBOOM

@ElectroBOOM

I think 99% of the time when engineers use a bridge they want to drop input voltage to a much lower DC voltage. The snag is, when you add a capacitor to the DC side of the bridge the floating  voltage coming out is more than what is coming in. It's a constant frustration, so we welcome the voltage drop through the diodes.

I mean that isn't exactly a new idea.

FERD diodes are much better at voltages under 100V

DIODES 4 LIFE GANG

@Christopher Grant I'm sorry.  You lost me.

@Christopher Grant okay? Why are you tell me a thing when EMI have nothing to do with EMC issue?  It is H bridge gate.

@Christopher Grant again, nothing to do with EMI. Surge or ESD could cause H bridge gate to failed.

@Christopher Grant I never said that.  As I said, EMI has nothing to do with what I'm talking about.  And H bridge gate should never be built everywhere.   

Do you know that the microwave inverter have H bridge for high voltage, right?  They always breakdown and failed.  That is my point.

@Christopher Grant  @Christopher Grant  I'm sorry, but you have no idea what you're talking about.  Microwave inverter are not a special case as I found a lot of them in scrap.  Only one microwave with transformer during my 7 years working are found in scrap.

Most importantly, if you haven't use a surge generator yet then it mean you have no idea what it is gonna do to an active rectifier.

@Christopher Grant again, you have no idea what you're talking about.  I read IEC standards, so I know about EMC a lot. So if one transistor is stuck closed cause by parasite capacitor then it is bad and could blow up.

@Christopher Grant by the way, using active rectifier on high voltage is a suicide project.

@Christopher Grant I don't need to read because it happened before in work and it didn't end well.  Remember, you're the one that commented without proof of evidence.  And JFET is the only that can be controlled easily, not IGBT on low voltage if bad design.

Maybe this is why high voltage FBR + step down converter seems to be more popular?

It's not going to be the end of the bridge rectifier, because where the cost isn't necessary they won't spend more for the more expensive part. Side note: perhaps a better diode will come out that will improve the traditional bridge rectifier.

You cant beat a good old selenium rectifier, nothings insulated, Electro boom would be proud, worst shock I ever had from 110v DC. 👻

1001 comment yay

Active rectifier only effective with high current applications.

I was using schottky diode for many years and do better job than mosfets (schottky diode have very low resistance than normal diode) Mosfets are good but control its not easy and fail very often

It all comes down to cost. Replacing a $.50 bridge diode with a $25 module is usually not necessary.

Where you wrote 'rigid' did you really mean 'robust' ?

The transformer is by far the least efficent component in a PSU.

Electro boom will be pound if he sees this

I freely admit I have not researched this one bit, but, I'll ask the question anyway... do any of these active rectifier chips include a soft start or soft turn on capability to limit inrush currents?

It would also be interesting to see what the gate signals to the mosfets looks like, because I suspect it's a pwm function.... and that being the case, a soft turn on should be easily possible.

FULL- "WAVE" DIODE BRIDGE Rectifier even?

Wow 0.88 to 4 percent increase, unless you are using a TON of power it's really not worth it as passive components are always more reliable.

BUT WHEN THE PART GOES BAD, THE ENTIRE BRIDGE GOES BAD.

I wondered why Electroboom not comment.

ElectroBOOM is mad

It's a full WAVE bridge rectifier, genius.

Aren't Schottky diodes supposed to mitigate that Vf drop?

well, we need other opinion with @electricBOOM

Full bridge rectifiers 
Like 🤣

guys what application did he use when he drew the schematic at  2:20?

I suspect these chips are using 50Hz square waves. To use a higher frequency PWM you would need to integrate an inductor.

The improvement is not that big with Schottky.

Easy eda

Where is the disclaimer warning viewers not to experiment with mains/high voltages?

Have you ever heard of flux?

I'm currently studying transformers in physics and i have previously studied engineering, so why is there a FBR and a transformer in the laptop power supply?

Couldn't the MOSFETs be toggled by the AC voltage itself, using two half rectifiers in opposing directions? Or would that risk running too much voltage for the switching mechanisms to handle?

Hey, what's the little black AC mains test box he's using at 8:14 ?

oh no, another H bridge?  there goes the reliability...

4 watts dosn't sound like a lot. but think. 100 million nintendo switches where sold in 2021. now if each one of those saved 4 watts.thats 400 million watts saved, or 400 megawatts, just shy of a 500 megawatt coal power plant. thats a LOT of power/Co2 not going in the air. and think. that is just 1 device!

I just see this as a full bridge rectifier with MOSFETs instead, which is of course a good idea when you want to minimize your forward voltage drop.
One experience I have with the classic full bridge rectifier is that the zero transition is quite non-linear and can cause quite a bit of noise. Decoupling with capacitors over each diode softens it considerably.

Waiting ElectroBOOM to React...

Sure, and this is also a really low cost solution...

active...fun... but more stuff to break.... 10+ years as an electronic tech...active-anthing...18 month life span verus 18 years...i think the lata still a better investment.

Except that NONE of these are good enough for LED circuits to actually prevent flicker at twice the mains frequency. The efficiency concerns drive the use of the cheapest and simplest conversion circuitry, resulting in 100 or 120 hz flicker. That flicker is faster than the image forming circuitry of the brain. It is above the flicker fusion frequency. 

However, the brain does NOT only see in imagery. Other circuits in the brain automatically track movement without and in advance of any part of consciousness even knowing movement was detected. Also, through other circuitry working in conjunction with that to extract edge and movement information another severe problem arises. The lateral geniculate nucleus that does those jobs in combination with the superior colliculus "sees" the high frequency flicker. It identifies that as a potential danger. Worse though, as LED light is everywhere in the visual field, the brain is not able to find that movement to look at it. Instead another portion of the brain is involved - the default mode network. That and other functions attempt to resolve the danger warning and to involve conscious awareness. That too fails. And when it fails for long enough (not very long), the brain reacts in several ways. 

In one way, the brain tries to find those motion by telling the ears to listen more closely and by turning on dead circuits to do that. The result is intense loud subjective tonal tinnitus. 

Other parts of the brain fail and the result is an optical migraine - temporary blindness for about 30-45 minutes. That is often followed by full blown migraines. Those last for hours, or with more exposure - for days. 

When the signals in the eyes are strong enough, this also overflows into the trigeminal nerve resulting in eye pain, pain behind the eyes, jaw and molar pain, and worse. 

So, the task you set for yourself is more involved and has additional constraints that you were not aware of. In addition to efficiency, the3re is an absolute need to minimize and eliminate 100-120 hz flicker. That takes priority over efficiency.

o come on.. just use an opamp based precision opamp rectifier, and beef it up with output devices.

more to go wrong, though, if the controlling chip goes gaga.....

I think Electroboom was lamenting on cheap circuit builds which used only one diode, therefore he rejoiced when he finds a Full Bridge Rectifier!

Ultra-Low VF Schottky Rectifiers virtually eliminates the voltage drop issue and will work in a FBR as long as the voltage and current specs fits. THere is no need for all this chicanery.

Surely a manufacturer could simply make a package compatible active rectifier as a simple replacement item for a diode bridge.  We shouldn't have to know or care what is inside the package if it simply works.

A "Full Bridge" rectifier?    
What is a "Full Bridge" to begin with?
What is a half bridge rectifier?  
What does HALF A BRIDGE look like?
What part of a "BRIDGE" needs rectification?
How do you RECTIFY a BRIDGE  (whether it's full or not)?
...........................
The device is a FULL WAVE rectifier (with diodes arranged in a bridge "CONFIGURATION" )
The device rectifies a WAVE, not a Bridge.

Active or not. It still is a full bridge rectifier.

hmm. it's not biased video.

Compared to the diode bridge this solution is costly, less reliable and usually used for low voltages and high current circuits.

Do you mean using very small diodes (just enough to control gate voltage) FBR to trigger the MOSFETS? A basic course on Active Retifies covers this https://nicadd.niu.edu/~fortner/course/phys475/lect/p575_01b.pdf.  They start with this basic concept and arrive at circuits similar to what is shown in the video.

I'd be interested in that as well.

It would be so expensive and it gives you very little benefits so its not worth the money really.

Why not use TRIACs or SCRs? They are a fraction of the price of MOS FETs. If you want fancy try a LASCR, an optical (light fiber) activated SCR, or LTT Light Triggered Thyristor.

Question for everyone: I'm building a 3d printer and I have a 1000W 120V heater pad for the bed.  My calculations show that this will draw 8.3A.. is this the Max Amperage itll draw? I need to know what current rating for a Temperature fuse. Im looking at a 155C fuse which I can get either 10A or 15A.. Which amperage fuse should I get? 8.3 is under 10A so one would think 10A will suffice but will getting the 15A fuse not be an issue? Will the 15A give me extra safety in case there are spikes (are their current spikes?) so that the fuse doesnt blow thus ruining a possible 24 hour print job?  I imagine the current "spikes" is how fires are caused or no?   I also heard someone say that a current can trip a fuse and jump the fuse.. IF this is true does it jump the fuse only if the fuse wasnt rated high enough or could it jump over any tripped fuse?

AC motor drive chopper for drives is old. Nothing new here... just implemented into rectification. Also, standard MOSFETS have internal diodes. Useless for this application. Also, is the old school method using scotky diodes or not? Efficiency difference between the two.

what about you used 2 diodes in parallel that would lower it's resistance? doesn't that work?

rugged?

It is to much effort for just 1% gain.

Nooooooooooooooooo.............

Imagine the power loss of all those billions FBRs and other components that are inside our electronics. How come we still have these relatively inefficient components? Optimizing those might reduce the global carbon footprint significantly.

At $150 per rectifier, FBR will be here to stay.

Switching power supplies have been around since the 80's (I know, I designed a few of them).  I guarantee your PC power supply is not a full bridge rectifier.

FUJJIUUUUUUUUUUUIUUUUUULLLL BRRRRRRRRRRRRIDGE RECTIFIEEEEEEEEEEEEER! 😤

Your soldering iron looks too cold.

until we see some blow up, or at least a unibrow, sticking with the full bridge rectifier

It's annoying to hear this topic discussed without the word "wave" included.

Nothing new. But years ago it was done rarely, only in special cases.

$170 is a lot to pay for a bridge rectifier, even if it is more efficient.

We are sorry about the question, but .. what is new in this? we don't get it. 
It is about the application. Or are you just trying to show the difference?

Always use a fuse.  This approach IS going to fail and short-circuit.  Take that to the bank.  Then you have the issue of switching hash on the "DC" side.

Mercury rectifier was the best

Very nicely explained and drawn. You explain things so smoothly and calmly. Half the time I was expecting you to get shocked, burnt, bang your head, etc. Then I realized that was because every time Mehdi connected something, bad things happen. Keep up the good work.😊

Because of the voltage drop on them. Probably this was a sarcasm from your side.

 @gherbent  You are running from Mains, voltage drop is not relevant. The real 'problem' here is efficiency, a diode that conducts for more of the waveform is the better choice, however unless you are talking about Mega watts, it is a waste of time.

Exactly how big is this printer? 1000W seems a bit much for the heated bed

Diodes are not ohmic devices. The forward voltage drop across the diode is roughly constant, so splitting the current across 2 diodes doesn't affect the power being dissipated.

 @fat_pigeon  right!

Hey just cliked on the video to tell you that the full bridge rectfire is cheapper and easyer to make

kinda cool also "no". Keep..it...Simple.. The more complexity you add to your designs the more can break. A full bridge Rectifier works just fine.

Sorry eBoom fans... The term "Full bridge" is technically wrong, the correct one would be "Full wave" bridge rectifier coz we're talking whether the rectified AC waveform is whole cycle or "full wave" or, in case of a "puny" single diode rectifier, "half wave". No need to say full bridge coz everyone knows there's no such thing as a "half" or "partial" bridge.

Actually, "full wave" bridge rectifier. ;-)

The FUUUULLLLLLL BRIDGE RECTIFIER is still optimal. It’s way cheaper and the efficiency gain for 99 percent of applications basicly all consumer stuff) its just not worth the increase in price like GAN is

Nice info!
A bit clickbaity thou

03:16 so in a circuit when theres two different paths to flow to (in this case the D3 and D4 from R1) the current will choose which ever path has the negative lead connected to it?  So if  the negative lead is connected between D1 and D3 no electricity will flow through D4? Also if the AC marked on that schematic is the power supply what is the VCC? Is that a device that uses the power? Im not great with these yet.. I was thinking the VCC was the power supply and I dont understand any of the definitions on ask quora when they simply say "rails for voltage collection".  Last question.. How does the AC supply pole change from + to - and - to positive thus leading to different current routes? This obviously cant happen at the same time.. So is this what happens with Alternating Current power supply? Its constantly swaps the polarity of the two leads?

One of the most important points is missing — cost. Engineering is about delivering a good solution at the best cost. Here cost should include not only the cost of the circuit, but how much money is saved by the quite tiny gain in efficiency. 

Even that is naiive because the cost is a function of perspective. The manufacturer of the power supply doesn’t care if you have to spend extra over the lifetime of the power supply’s use. They care if their product sells and is reliable. More parts means more cost to them and likely a higher failure rate and lower manufacturing lead.

So, the click bait title is very misleading.

Last, a good engineer does not do design hoping things don’t blow up 😅

Nope! 2 years later and the bridge rectifier is alive and well! Sorry!

This its sad…

Half bridge rectifier😂😂

You only test with low load power, if you test with high load over 5000W, your rectifier will better than bridge diodes.

Full bridge Rectifier: 0.005 usd.
Active rectifier using Mosfets: 2.50 usd
There is a BIG difference in the cost to manufacture these things...

"FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!" is same as electroBOOM

so stupid idea in laptop power supply..... IPLU transistor them self cost 4 euro each copare to 0,2 e rectifier ....

electro booooom

Diodes are dirt-cheap compared to the IC and 4 MOSFETs.

Use shottky

One other observation that is not electronics related….I bet you always filled in the oval on the standardized tests fully and never went outside the lines, right?

How to make something overly complicated with more components and more cost plus  uses more space on a PCB 


Think  I prefer the old way of doing this  myself 


Next comes  the module that  you can't  get too  when you need to service an item , preform voltage checks or scope and of course  yes they rip  you off for the module  which co incidently  uses SMT 

 If you want high stability on  power supplies then you opt for  PWM and switch mode to start with but there you are   OK  its very clever  but its also overly complicated and will suffer from inherent switching noise where on some  circuits will  have  other effects  when this may  well interfere  with  on board oscillator  circuits etc 

Next you would  have to  implement RFI shielding  to counteract these effects 

Uh yet more cost  ?  

Next  comes the damage to the PCB  that happens when these  FETS  burn  up and they do  often ,,  Uh  oh 4 fets that have to be replaced plus IC and  cant repair board 

Then  you  finally take  this into account and think   simpler is better   in many cases and  also far more cost effective  over all

It doesn't take you to  long to  work out what they  are up too with this and the answer is  ? 

10 / 10  , You guessed  correctly , "We dont want this serviced or repaired so  we decided to make this  overly complicated  knowing full  well that our aim as  manufacturers is to force  you to buy new " 

Ive seen this done so many times across the industry that by the time they have finished they actually wreck their own companies  and good  products  along with a number very good engineers  jobs never mind all other companies that decided to take this route  thinking they are very smart until this too hits them  in the rear end 


I like technology dont get me wrong  

I also see where this is going and I know how they work  which in essence  boils down to greed and "I Must have total pow wow  over all " ,  not that  they are not facing major challenges with waste and climate change any way so why not make it worse   

Beats the hell out of me why anyone would want to go these  lengths for the sake of what  an extra  4.7%  efficiency  and at nearly treble the cost  

Well  there  you I guess    , " You can get to clever with this  and unnecessarily so  achieving  negative performance over all  "

Good presentation  though and and yes Ive learnt something new   but other than this  ....  well  Ill leave it there

Its not really a question of trying to outsmart people which in essence is what this has become  generally speaking ,  and yes it  has got this stupid  but how to produce  a practical solution that benefits the majority  and is workable and viable   but hey ho the  show must go on

Vcc is what the positive power rail connection is often called for BJT based semiconductors. ('C' for 'Collector'). For MOSFET based chips is usually called Vdd. ('D' for 'Drain').
Yes, alternating current (AC) is so called because the current... alternates. The input-power from the wall does that. And when you don't want that then you need this system of one-way doors.

If you want to work with currents in range of 50 to 200A than your traditional bridge rectifier is unusable, thats why active ones are made.

Explosions is not your playfield

It is a BRIDGE RECTIFIER. Even if you are a "fool", there is no need to boast about it!

Ultimately, this active rectifier has too few use cases and comes with some nasty safety issues (creating a short if the chip doesnt operate properly). By comparison, the "good ol'" set of 4 diodes is simple and safe.
While there certainly are use cases for the active rectifier, the benefits are far too low to justify the issues it creates.

Some chargers, drills and AA/AAA chargers must use the old type of transformers instead of the stabilized ones. If not, the batteries remain weak or the IC charging won’t start. Sony mini disc doesn’t like 3v ic charger.

Why would you want to replace a single component that has worked for decades so well with a handful of components with so many failure opportunities. More expensive parts, more chances for failure. No need to redesign the wheel.

It’s full wave bridge rectifier…

надо упрощать ,а не усложнять !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. :face-fuchsia-wide-eyes::face-fuchsia-wide-eyes::face-fuchsia-wide-eyes::face-fuchsia-wide-eyes::face-fuchsia-wide-eyes::face-fuchsia-wide-eyes::face-fuchsia-wide-eyes::face-fuchsia-wide-eyes:

.

Correction: The End of the Fool Bridge Rectifier

Absolutely no designer wants their rectifier to be encumbered by active technology. The last place you want a requirement for power is in the power supply.

"The End of the Full Bridge Rectifier?"
Not anytime soon. Where voltage drop doesn't matter and light to moderate current applications, standard bridges are reliable and less to go wrong not to mention cheaper.

lol sorry electroboom, well like he cares for what you say ? It is same like you "care" for what others say to you , isn't it ? Conclusion , you both are careless as you make enough from youtube for nice smooth living, gratz on that for real !

A bridge rectifier is not difficult to understand at all. It is essentially a ratchet.

"Active rectifier" looks exactly like an H Bridge. Wtf.

Good video.  Active rectifiers have been known since the 1980s, and we used these in some satellite applications where low voltage batteries were being used.  The main problem with FETs is that the higher the voltage standoff, the higher the source/drain resistance.  FETs now are up to about 1000+volts and IGBTs are over 4000+volts, but in both cases the loss voltage across the device is almost proportional, so still requires roughly the same cooling power, for the given application.  We did railroad applications at 2000+volts, 500+amps, where we had to use antifreeze liquid for cooling, in specially milled tubes inside of the heatsinks.  Freon and chilled water cooling was also tried, but these has significant physical disadvantages, and had poor heat transfer under unusual or incorrect operating conditions, often resulting in catastrophic failures.  Our ten-ton experimental 6-wheel truck would often burst into flames, with such failures.  In thermal world, "there is no free lunch".  You must cool adequately, for any given power level, period, or burst into flames.  Your example is good for a "few" watts of loss, and then it will cook itself, since the heat outflow is very low.

minecraft redstone systems :D

Hello no!

Mehdi gonna cry

Not worth it, only in very high power applications and even then "maybe". MOSFETs tend to zap and then you have a problem. Bipolar diodes can take abuse.

My comments are cringe

Nothing will ever replace the awesome 'Mercury arc rectifier'. Everything after it is just a fake cheap  copy.

:D :D no they are not the future

Keep the diodes, the other has too many components to fail.

Why sorry ElectroBOOM??

its literal power supply... just say it

Why are you putting a microcontroller when you can do the same thing with th recictifier...2w dissipation on 2 kw? Wtf

nope they are not the future....they more expensive and also need extra chip to balance and control the mosfets

This IC TEA2208 is just the poor mans version of the LT4320 is it not? 
Linear technology calls their IC 'The ideal diode bridge controller' but its the same thing. 4 MOSFETS and a controller.

You will never ever see the end of the bridge rectifier. There will be active ones seen more and more bit theres no way past the cheapness of the classic bridge, plus there is no real reason to replace them in cases where they are only working at 50 or 60 HZ...

You are scaring me, the way you are using your auto transformer for a low voltage power supply.....most wiring rules warn against doing so as any sort of overload or open circuit could see mains active voltage  being applied to all those wires your touching.... 
A solution would be to use the auto transformer to power a step down transformer that offers isolation from the mains in case of a fault.

Good video...

Fake circuit - doesn't work at all

It's a full wave bridge rectifier not a full bridge.

bridgeless pfc is not something new

HOW ELECTROBOOM APOLOGIZED YOU?

Nope!! It will Never end ...
See later

Decreasing voltage drop from the original bridge rectifier by using active rectifier will also decrease reliability  while complicating the process . every well thinking engineer know simplicity = reliability. Complexity = Problem .

Clean & neat workbenches are a sign of a poser.

Overkill. If it ain't broke, don't fix it.

2:09 - Start here without seeing the advertisement in case you're tired of these YouTubers bragging with their sponsors.

wtf the circuit model for a mosfet - like any transistor - has a diode in it why would it lose less power than a simple diode by itself?

Don't...












Never gonna give you up
Never gonna let you down

Both are expensive at about $7 or $8 each. The LT4320 is limited to 9-72V and is useful for PoE or some industrial (say 24V AC) equipment where the high cost is acceptable.

 @mikemike7001  From memory I think the LT4320 is much more efficient. But from my own work with it. It is more difficult to pair with MOSFETS. As in, it won't just take any old MOSFET.

This makes no sense

Because it has less than 0.1V drop compared to 1-2V on a normal diode bridge, it makes sense for high currents.

It's not the POWER LOSS that bothers me - It's the RIPPLE VOLTAGE...This is NOT NEW - this is just a better regulation for getting rid of RIPPLE...

BTW: 100 % equals 1, so there is no point in multiplying with 100 %. And you should say that the difference is 0,5 (or $whatever) points, not percent, to avoid misleading information.

NXP ACTUALLY DEVELOPED THIS ?? Couldn't they find something useful for the new grads ?

0:02 Mehdi would be proud

I think you just like saying “rectifier” ;-)

To much fluffing about with the extra circuitry involved, raising the cost of designs.

Solid state relays / rectifiers are way better.

I can't see nay reason to use an active rectifier rather than a passive bridge rectifier. I'd honestly rather have passive components than pay extra money for something that is more complicated than it needs to be.

Gib Mal Gas!4 Kondensatoren über die Brücke und du hast keine Störungen mehr drauf für AM/Longwave and Shortwave Receiver.👻👻👻😂😂😂💖☕🗿🇩🇪🔒

first off, we need to understand that it's  full  WAVE  bridge rectifier.!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Nope. It's still a full bridge rectifier. Just not made out of diodes.

just use schottky diodes

Overall, this circuit even if more efficient, is not worth it.  Too Complex.  More components to fail and higher cost. Switch from silicon to Germanium Diodes and you increase efficiency 60% in a bridge rectifier.  .30 for Germanium vs .70 voltage drop. Simple is always better, more reliable, smaller and cheaper.
 if this circuit requires a controller which uses current, then how is it more efficient ?

High or low current makes little difference if you have a proper cooling method. Modulated Scan wave / Switch mode power supply ( invented bu Motorola in the late 1960's) and used in every power brick currently sold is how you improve efficiency.
Mosfets will not provide constant current like a diode can.

Not cheap…

No. It's not a "full bridge rectifier." It's a "full-wave bridge rectifier."

Mehdi is coming

You could compare these rectifiers with a selenium rectifier.  Just kidding.

more components more loss

I apologize, I really can‘t watch your thumb on that pencil. I can‘t.😮

So what's new? Has this guy just left school?

FBR is going nowhere, it's just too cheap.

Hidden advertise inside! The laws of fullbridge rectifiers cannot be tilt, externe triacs allow more current by more heat, there is no kings way!

It's too big.

Ключевое преимущество обычного диодного моста в его надёжности. Выход из строя этой части схемы это крайне маловероятное событие. Заменяя этот простой блок целой кучей компонентов, в числе которых микросхема (которая, между прочим, будет находится в "горячей части схемы"), разработчик снижает надёжность всей схемы в разы. При этом, почему-то автор видео не упоминает, что существуют диоды с крайне малым падением напряжения, при использовании которых эффективность будет вполне сопоставима с мостом на мосфетах.

Иными словами, это тупость, а не будущее. А разработчики, сознательно добавляя подобный хлам в свои схемы - создают испражнения, а не надёжные приборы.

Your AC line crossing the main circuit body makes me uncomfortable.
Poor form.

Leftie gang assemble!

Useless for 99% of practical applications needed at your home (with 2-phase 110 - 240VAC outlets). Even the computer will function better if supplied by 4-diode rectifier and a toroidal transformer (though these PSUs are chunkier).
Disadvantages of mosfet designs::

Generates electromagnetic interference
Complex circuit design
Expensive compared to linear supplies

You just tried to copy the fuuuuuuuuuuuul bridge rectifier sound of ElectroBoom :)

you need a unibrow to say "fuuull bridggge rectifieer" properly

One more un-necessary over-complicated item to make devices more unreliable and harder to diagnose

Pizza

Really no point to these things besides you gotta have a rectifier somewhere in the chip to make it operate so ugh why even bother with this unless you got some kinda mosfetish.

Full 'WAVE' bridge rectifier.   The word "full" means nothing without 'wave' being included.  The other form of bridge rectifier is the "half wave"  Why do you and Electroboom continue to use this incorrect English term ?

going against rectifier means starting of world war z😵

165,65 euro for one piece?????????? No thanks, I'd better stick to the full bridge rectifier :)

Scam! A comparator alone is several transistors. :)

Seeing as a transistor is really two diodes (NP + PN or PN + NP), FBR should be doable using only two transistors.

Edit: I'm joking!

Overengeneering much? puuuh +2%

Nah mate. 4 diodes is too simple to be irrelevant

It seems like A CRAP LOAD OF TROUBLE and more expensive than what you're trying to compensate for!!!  Seriously.

MOSFETs fail most of the times. Diodes don't fail as much. MOSFETs will never replace diodes in rectification.

FOOL BRIDGE RECTIFIAH

This was weirdly unsatisfying. You've shown all the wrong application for this circuit and some of the information provided was also a bit confusing. First of all, it's not really the current, it's the voltage drop on those diodes compared to mains voltage. If you have around 0.56V drop on each diode, there are two in series and you are trying to rectify 25V, of course the efficiency lost on these diodes will be 100%*(0.56*2)/25 = 4,5%. The higher the rectified voltage, the less of an effect that drop will have. Try doing the same thing with 12V or 5V... 
An 100A diode will still have around 1V drop below 20A, so you can make something that will be reasonably efficient even with extremely high current. The problem is that these components are very expencive. You can also use shottky diodes and there are some power modules with extreme performance, like the 300CNQ045PbF, which has 0.61V drop at 150A, it just costs around $45.
Active rectifiers solve specific problem, which is when you need to rectify low voltage with somewhat high current.

Pointless. FBR is cheaper, more reliable, smaller, easier to implement. 
I can insert a thumb tack with a sledgehammer, sure, but my thumb will do the same with less effort.

BLASPHEMY!!!

Also click baity titles lose you points

not worth it.

the new intro is bad ... the old one was oc

Hey bro copy from electro boom lol 
Only saying full bridge rectifier

Blasphemy!

There is no such thing as a half bridge rectifier.

You've gotta be kiddin me .. this is an example of bullshit engineering .. anti-KISS philosophy .. stick with four fking diodes .. holy shit I can't believe I took time to watch this. I feel like I'm at work - the managers would LOVE this "new" rectifer.

How dare you? 
Why you copied electroboom's dialogue.😆😆

what a clik bait title shame on you, as long as 4 mosfets price barier they will never fully repalce simple 4 diodes circut

Hey! dont copy @electroboom 😂

0 shocks. 0 blown components.
Do you even know what you're doing?

almost 7 electronics items to make the same work of  four do, ..... I'm  out

Just do your thing, why need to mention Electroboom?  are you jealous that  he has a lot of views?   look what you are doing  is so complicated  not a lot of people would do that in making power supplies  for project  or i'd rather buy online or use old Atx power supply

You must be really bored to be doing this exercise. Why bother replacing the simple fbr with another complex circuit that has way more components? Makes no economic sense to me

Active rectification. This is nothing new and is literally how industrial electronics work…motors driving pumps etc.
I have pumps on VFDs from almost 20 years ago that use active rectification. 
This video is very misleading implying that this is a new technology.

Why are you mimicking Electroboom?  Come up with your own style.

All of this can be integrated into one chip, which probably already exist.

 @gherbent  ??

I have a genuine question to the channel’s author. Are you deliberately not getting rid of your accent? I mean, if you stop prolongating sounds it suddenly will disappear, it’s that simple.

It is not even funy ,mister ! Ask youtube to delete all your videoes or I will ask it for you ! NOW

nothing about this is "new" my friend. you just want to monetize about something. this "new" MOSFET bridge is expensive, that's the reason is not used today as with the "old" diode bridge. but keep monetizing

Cheesy clickbait title doesn't suit this channel well. The Active rectifier or whatever doesn't work for high current, and FBR is cheaper, easy to replace / upgrade.

your diagram sucks, diamond makes more sense...

Typical engineering... replace a simple diode with more overengineered crap.

Too much adds. Gets unwatchable.  Unsubscribing. Tschüss

"No matter if its made of mosfets or diode, a Rectifier is still a Rectifier to me"



"And also the FUUUUUL BRIDGEEEE RECTIFIERRRR will never be replaced"

-Anquarza/me 2022

Dear GreatScott, the title of the video is misleading. It is still a bridge rectifier. For rectification, instead of diode MOSFETs are used. For example, MOSFETs were also replaced the tubes in amplifiers, oscillators, mixers so on but that is not the end of amplifiers oscillators and mixers!

Thank you! I asked this video to ElectroBoom few weeks ago and you answered it first!!! Always appreciate awesome explanation!!!

Hello Jeremy, aka Great Scott, Always great experiments and educational content. As a long time sub, Thank you for all you do providing quality content and teaching electronics. All the Best from Oregon, C.

ElectroBOOM is one Irritating Chanel!

