does this guy respawn off camera

insulates the ground wire

we are safe now

Actual demonstration of a LER (light emitting resistor)

3:30
Talking very calmly while the resistor fricken becomes 500x hotter than the sun

Just studied diodes and rectifiers yesterday in class. Every time the professor said the words 'Bridge Rectifier' I would smile like an idiot remembering this video XD.

I only came here for the..FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

1:40  JUMPscare alert

3:15 how engineers sneeze.

“I let it cool down for a while now”

proceeds to touch it and burn himself

I like how this guy manipulates "controlled" explosions and accidents to teach electrical safety and proper handling of high-voltages which can help many amateur electrical enthusiasts.

He deserves more subscribers!

I used to watch a lot of his vids before college. Now I got my degree in Electronics Engineering 😂😂😂

"I can barely feel it, DC is much safer to the touch"
gets shocked by the capacitors

Jumpscare at 1:39.
Stay safe kids.

this channel is what makes youtube great

And a legend was born.
ALL HAIL THE FOOL BINGE RECTUM FRIER

3:40 "I let it cool down for a while and SH*T!!!!" 🤣😂

1:34 me when i go to kill the Ender Dragon with leather armor

FOOL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!

"We're safe now."

“As you can see I have no regard for safety” aka this whole channel

He built a respawn pad

god mode on

 @krivisk244  Buddha mode because he still takes damage.

 @krivisk244  IDDQD

Mine-electro-craft

likes all the replies.

/summon ElectroBoom[type=godmode]

xandervv he watches ads to get extra lives

He doesnt die he regenerates

Creative Mode on

He changes from gamemode 0 to gamemode 1 and viceversa

sv_cheats 1

Yes,
It’s the only explanation

@Lord Unknown But it's C# :)

@Lord Unknown Yeah

Lol probably

we stockpiled Mehdis before hand, we have lots to spare

Yes’nt

he is in creative mode doing redstone

yes because he is a god

No he was on hardcore and did ”/effect @s resistance 200000 200”.

Nah. The dude has jugger-nog active

Nah he got them totems

Respawning? That's not real!







Bish you thought I'm getting wooooshed? No

sv_cheats

Yea

Maybe

Yep

yea how do you think he does experiments

No, hes just recall

Of course he does.  How do you think Persians have survived for thousands of years?

nope hes on creative mode

He uses clones

No, he built an immunity to electricity after being shocked so many times.

@Thomas Samoht Someone's been watching too much dr.who. :D

Could be

Yes

nah he's a pro, he plays permadeath

No he's just immortal

IDDQD

Hes immortal but take damage lol

 @RF_N he’s deadpool

yes_

No...
Of course not
He turned on invincibility

 Adolf Hitler  never expected to see hitler in the comments

he sleeps in the middle of the day to set spawn

😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂

The answer is cloning

yes

basically yes

🤣🤣🤣🤣

Yah, all gamers respawn

i think he does

Yes

/gamemode ElectroBOOM creative

That's some editeding skills if he does

no he's in creative mode

All fake

Yes

So if he dies he respawns…
Very n i c e

He has made he's body run off of ac and DC he's also a GOD

Yes he respawns just like I do

Bro got cheats on

Nah, he restarts from his checkpoint

He is on creative mode

His bed be like: you may not rest now there are single diode rectifiers nearby

Yes

🤣🤣🤣🤣

lol probably

Yes I handle it for him

If that was me. I would have passed a long time ago😂

Honestly, 10 years later and still the best electroboom comment.

Yes

Actually yes😂

lmfao

Or are we?

 @polskiobywatel553  Moon men plays

Hahahauhaah

Hahah

LMAO

unsafe safety is where it's at

Used to be common practice amongst TV engineers as the TV chassis was live. Never used an earthed soldering iron on TV's back then.

 @catman4471  A better approach would be to run the TV through an isolation transformer.

doubt

hands on the safety capacitors leads

Love this guy.

@Discòωórd 
I see you everywhere

…of the oscilloscope.

This very dangerous

Only for girls

I think 🤔 this crazy man

Didnt get it

lmao

lmao

Haha

I always rip that silly ground prong off. Safety Third!!!

6.9k xd

What is the problem and why he isolated the ground of the wire

 @21Omareddin  The earth pin is a safety feature. It is connected to a large metal rod that is in the ground under every house. It is basically an emergency way to get rid of excess current. When he connected the probe to his circuit, he shorted the power to earth. This caused a fuse, another safety feature in his circuit to blow, as a fuse is designed to melt so the other components don't.
By disconnecting the earth pin, he basically negated decades of safety features with a piece of tape.

Using 5000$ differential probes to measure mains voltage
Vs
Insulating the ground of your scope

The lack of punctuation and capitals make this comment funnier.

LMAAAOOOOO

@Mike Sienicki
Without it it's dangerus!

The earth*

 @bonnome2  they are the same.

 @bonnome2  Earth/Ground Is still the same

AKA an incandescent lamp

Also known as an incandecent Light bulb

Also called an incandescent lightbulb.

its efficiency is on the opposite end of the spectrum but oh well.

LEL

Good one

You mean an incandescent bulb filament?

Formerly known as LAMP

Bro just described an incandescent light bulb 💀

A light and a heater... I guess with a fan, a propulsion system.. or just light cigarettes

I think that's called an incandescent bulb.

So it's basically an like incondesent light bulb?

All incandescent light bulbs work on the LER principle.

 @damemes3669  Except that an incandescent lamp is in a vacuum bulb so it can't catch fire, whereas a LER is exposed to air and can catch fire so it's much more exciting.

I don't think it exists as of yet but it's a cool alternative ide- oh

And I felt no pain, for once.  I'd forgot my last experience with such in situ, thanks!

Um aksually 👆🤓


It’s an incandescent light

@xyzzy777 it mostly isn't that much of a good alternative, because it produces a lot more heat, so it uses way more energy

 @someoneelse5005  r/woooosh

​ @someoneelse5005 light emitting diode is efficient.
Light emitting resistor is just an incandescent lamp lol

​ @someoneelse5005 it's called an incandescent light bulb

 @mollyandaquafina  r/storiesaboutkevin

 @anti-fz9be  r/facepalm

"I let it cool down for a while AND SHI*!"
Makes me laugh, every time.

Depending on what part of the sun you are talking about, 500 times hotter can be anywhere from quickly dead to instantly dead. That resistor might have been as hot as the sun's surface, but not hot enough to give off so much light that your skin cooks on top of your eyes.

​ @vinnysworkshop if it was that hot, it would ionize the air arround it with such energy output
Oh and it would instantly vaporize the resistor lol

if it would be hotter than the sun, mehdi would vaporize

Yeah whenever i hear mention of a rectifier of any kind i hear Mehdi`s voice in my head say FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!

puru I would of yelled out GAAASP FOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOL bridge rectifier

In the middle of my class when he said a bridge rectifier I yelled don't you mean a full bridge

puru 😂

Zachary Amsden same 😂

Same

Nice

/camera shakes
FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!¡¡!

I think try to not to kill your self your investors

I just read that with his voice FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

FULL BRIDGE RECTUM-FRIER

Fuol bredge rectifiyah 😂

Isn't this what video is about?

He says it like the rectal fire

I came here for the grand rectifier

Me too

same here

FULLLLLL BRIJE REKTIFIER

Timestamp?

FUUUUUUUUL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

More like 'how electrical engineers sneeze'

Lol

omg very nice joke dude😂😂😂

😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂

It does sound like it

BLEEP  BLEEP

SH*T

Engineer gaming

Engineer gaming

Engineer Gaming

[ my tf2 main] Gaming.

Name checks out

MasterL Player it's kinda silly but it's a clever way to show what and what not to do. He has these controlled “sparks” that hurts him but doesn't actually kill him.

 @LouisEarl  only time I ever saw him legit almost die was with that homemade guitar he made

And he's doing it waay better then every filmmaker out there

damn that guy deserves a honor,!try to do 'controlled explosion'  by urself. he has some balls))

I wonder how many were not controlled.

Dandur very few, or he would be dead. Thus guy gives me capacitor ptsd

 @dandur7124  if there were any, he probably wouldn't have a degree

 @dandur7124  I know the one with the Jacobs ladder was unplanned, that one was scary

When he connects a resistor with his hands at around 3:20 it ‘explodes’ but when he does it with pliers it doesn’t

 @casperdh  the spark is caused by the rapid disconnection of the resistor, and it didn't explode either, it was just getting very hot

Getting shocked once will also do that.

I have a feeling much of what he does in this video was not intentional. Seems like a total cluster-f**k to me.

even though it's controlled the pain is usually beyond control:'D

He's got 4.53M subscribers now

He's at over 5mil now. I'm glad

 @commandbaker3334  still convinced he deserves more tho😆

9 years later.
He's only got 8 million followers.
#respectable ⚠️

He also ‘accidentally’ touches the 170v lines, and gets a shock, but when he shows that you can touck them he also doesn’t

congrats

 @NH-ge4vz  nah

A YouTube user not really

 @TheSquidThatCould  not really

um

I’m watching him, and starting college for electronic engineering in two months!!

 @totallydillion  you won't make it

I am 13 and I love his videos.

I'm currently a student of electrical engineering and a big fan of this channel :)

FULL BRIDGE

Congrats dude! Plan to take a degree like that too

うそ!

PhD student here, have been watching his video since high school

Why doesn't this guy start teaching electrical engineering at UBC or BCIT, or even his alma mater SFU?

*If he isn't already

 @denelson83  Been black listed by the insurance companies

Total chad here

I’m a year late. But it’s never too late to congratulate someone so congratulations on getting your degree

We're there any girls in ur class? 😂

Really might go for it myself now... just finish computer repair and maintenance. Was thinking something in eletrics or video but im thinking electrics and engineering <3

Congratulations on you degree/dagrees

Proud of u

Congratulations

Cool

My dream is to have this guy as my teacher

Same, happy to be EE grad

Mehdi also has a degree in Electrical Engineering

John David So does Joe Biden, at least that is what he thinks he said last week.... lol

The flex

The only difference between us that I am not in university yet

Mehdi is proud of you!

Hows Your Degree Is Going Now😂😂😂

Cheers mate!

Lol same. I'm a Computer Engineer though. I stumbled upon this exact video years ago when we had to make a full bridge rectifier for a uni project.

Lmao I’m an electrical engineer now and I’m pretty sure he was an influence

Maybe with a thesis on the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!? ;-)

And then

That will most likely be where I end up as well

Actually good job

good job

Congrats

Coincidence? I Think Not.

Smort

That’s awsome

That's really inspirational

Good job 👍

Congrats

Im studying electronics at my school 😁

Nice

Congrats

Me too ❤️

Same lmao

And I'm getting degree in electrical engineering

 @pdx121  And I just lost a bunch of money on my geico insurance!!

I'm almost done with mine!

Grats dude

It's the power of the FULL BRIDGE RRCTIFIER

Can you use your degree to kill me with high voltage pwease ?

Congratulations

Congratulations

electronics or electrical?

omg

is this in america? If so it's not worth that much. At least not worth the same as european degrees.

same lmao but electronics is only a part of my degree (automation and robotics)

Congratulations

and you quit watching  him?

Hell yeah. Mehdi must be proud

DEGREE WON'T BRING YOU MONYY

Congrats

Nice bro

Anime

Im getting there

Why does that need 😂😂😂
Just makes you seem annoying when you tell people something.

nice

Congratulations 🎊

Do you mean electronics engineering or electrical engineering I just started college and my first year I had the misfortune of mixing the two up. They are Surprisingly different things…

我也是，而且从头像表情推测你也会中文😂

me2 lol

congrats, i actually want to get the same degree you got, i mean like when i willw learn in college

Im getting my degree right now

Congratulations, man!!! I'm getting mine too next year.

good

P

The underlying physics behind the electric components hasn't changed and probably won't change. What else do you expect than for resistors, capacitors, etc... To be made better? You still need resistance, capacitance, etc...
Entire integrated circuits can be made on something the size of a stamp.

congrats

Congratz bro❤

Now Pay Him

And now you realize we are still using 1970's components  lol, looks like we are using borrowed technology. I look at Electronics and shake my head seeing 1950's components in modern electronics. We have not replaced a resistor, capacitor, regulator, mosfet, transistor, transformer. We are buying new electronics with miniaturized 1970's + 1990's components. A 2020 iPhone 11 can't run without resistors, diodes, voltage regulators, diodes etc. None of these components have been replaced in 40+ years.

Danfuerth Gillis what they've done is shrinking the size of the components to the smallest size possible. But other than that, you're right we're pretty much using the same technology since they were invented.

Danfuerth Gillis and?

 @danfuerthgillis4483  those are the fundamentals to manipulating electricity. if there was a better solution, I can almost guarantee it would have been found by now.

 @guitarbage86  but bro, i think he doesnt refer to the physical components. In core, we, in reality, havent updated those components, or in more well said words, we havent updated what we know about them (kind off, bcuz we have made some advancements on the theorethycal side) and how we use the effects the reactions we call "components" make. The components by themselves have improved a lot, of course. We have invented new ways to build them, new ways to make them fit in more small places and new ways to make them more efficient with better and cheaper materials. But, they still work the same. The effects they cause, and how we use those effects to our advantage, havent changed in 50 years, just a fact. A transistor is a transistor, you cant go against that. 

All of those examples you've made before are just proofs of that. They are still transistors (or chemical or physical reactions that we call "transistors"). We havent stopped using the same reactions we call "components" for over 50 years. Our basics of the basics havent changed in a lot of time.

We havent invented something more effcient than a transistor when it comes to logical applies. Even a quantumm computer works combining the superposition concept with the concept of the basics of how a transistor works, that is basically like saying "right there is just one transistor that counts like two bcuz it can do twice the task due to its state of superposition". 

The guy is midly correct, he just didnt expressed himself well or y'all didnt understood what he said. By calling his statement dumb, and by putting by example the transistors thag are inside a processor, specifically, you have played yourself, ironically. 

But the guy didnt explain himself well the first time, so, whatever you both are messed up.

😂😂😂 but im electrical diploma holder 😂😂

How you like that debt

capacitors gave him a short pulse of DC. the capacitance of your skin is what makes AC able to flow through it. DC cant flow through but put a short pulse of DC thru a capacitor and it'll go through.

 @polymetric2614  I don't understand, why the DC didn't hurt him but the capacitor did when both have the same voltage?

I believed he explained that the palm of his hand is more sensitive than his finger, and he also touched the output with his finger on purpose while with his hand was accidental.

Thanks Mr. X

That made me jump lol

Did You Just Predict The Lockdown???

HOLY FUCKING SHIT I WISH I TOOK YOUR WARNING I ALMOST HAD A FUCKING HEART ATTACK

Thanks Tyrant

He scared the shit out of me

X gon give it to ya XD

Too late 😹

I’m laughing uncontrollably

Thanks😂

Thanks bro

i did not get scared

🎾

I wish I read this earlier

I did jump at that moment

Ok

That future did nothing useful.

This is unreality.

Mr.X oh noooo sooo scary

lets make youtube great again

Rowyn Gaming official Doughnut trump

Make YouTube Great Again

F yeah

Basilis Skiadas Donald Trump.

r/boneappletea

 @scambaiterlexie  woosh joke

 @scambaiterlexie  r/whooosh

hail hydra

A type of taco?

Nah that’s the heated seat he made

 Squidward Tentacles  He just made a joke, jeez.

Just bring beds and put it to sleep.

 Squidward Tentacles  Minecraft is a FAMILY game...

I didn't know you were supposed to wear armour?! I killed it without it

People have beaten the ender dragon with no armor fyi

 Squidward Tentacles  its a joke

learn to take one

 Squidward Tentacles  and let me guess, you're 2? Smfh

It's a bridge rectifier for fools

*FOOL BREEDGE RECKTEFIYAH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

It's called "Fulllll BRiDgE reCTifIeR"

"I know how to be safe with this stuff. If I didn't, I'd be dead. Let me show you how to do everything wrong so you don't kill yourselves."

 @benjaminoechsli1941  yep, that's an accurate description of this channel.

3:02 "we are safe now"
lol

Literally every time he puts stuff in the plug i lower down my speakers

Mehdi is the electricity equivalent of Cody's Lab.

A full bridge rectifier converts AC to DC, and an inverter converts DC to AC. I would absolutely love to see just a chain of rectifiers and inverters for the fun of it.

I have no clue what a FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER is, but I've watched this video so many times because it's funny.

BEAR HANDS!!

2:12 BURRRR

1:20
Mehdi : "....unlike your puny wall adapter which can do 20 watts at best."
Me : *stares at my innocent wall adapter with disappointment

I failed in electrical engineer degree. I wish you were my teacher sir. I respect you a lot. You take shocks to teach us.

@3:35 "Woowww, I was holding daatt"

"we are safe now" famous last words

1:33 That spark is caused by a inrush current of capacitors. Please remember: Capacitors can't change voltage instantly! To limit sparks, you need a NTC thermistor.

man, i enjoy your vids. Please add them more often.

F U L L B R I D G E R E C T I F I E R

YOU MUST CONSTRUCT ADDITIONAL FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIERS

ELECTORBOOM:FULL BRIDGE RECTIFYAAAAA!!!

After a couple weeks in college I actually understand your videos! :) A lot of this stuff is awesome!

Disapionted, first scene where you plug something into mains.... and no explosion :(

2:00 can't feel a thing.
3:54 hurts a lot

explain yourself mehdi!

Who's here after watching the linus tech tips video on power supplies?

Thank you for the advice

Read it off my mind.-.

Quality Content.

Some Morse Code guy wouldn't love you

@Sam Bruh 😂

deep voice FULL BRIGE RECTIFIER

 @xainsleena  might wanna recheck your spelling

Mehdi will be around in 20 years and not get killed by a fool-hardy experiment, or arrested by the ATF. Despite the presented content, Mehdi's edited his videos to seem like he's having accidents.

no hes better.

I'm drawing a schematic for a circuit I call a CATR (Current Amplifying Transistor Rectifier) right now. This is similar to a full bridge rectifier but it uses transistors instead of diodes. This keeps the DC voltage output the same as the AC input voltage, but the DC output will have a larger current, which is determined by the beta value of the transistors. Low-power applications would use signal transistors, but high-power applications would use power transistors.

 @coastersaga  where could I find your schematic

 @coastersaga  Unless I've misunderstood you, what you're describing is actually impossible.  If the output voltage is the same, but the current is higher, then your circuit would be producing more power than it's consuming, which would violate the laws of physics.

The only way you can produce more current is by reducing the voltage, or vice-versa.

An inverter is a device that performs a logical operation (or NOT gate). A full bridge rectifier converts AC to pulsating DC. There is absolutely nothing correct in your comment.

 @gaynzz6841  That's an inverter logic gate. We're talking about power inverters, which do exactly what he said - they take DC and produce an AC wave from it. Same name (at least in short form), totally different thing.

+Captain Capellini He literally explained that in the video :o

+Sand Pox It's AC to DC ;)

+Captain Capellini 
He helped me understand what a full bridge rectifier is, but more importantly, I've learned that he just LOVES full bridge rectifiers! XD

The simplest way I can describe a FBR is that it's a traffic light that makes sure all the electrons are going through the circuit in the same direction.

These rectifier diodes are way too old these days, modern high power power supplies use MOSFETs to accomplish rectification. It's very interesting.

+Captain Capellini ...It's usually called a 'Full-wave' rectifier....

Captain Capellini a full bridge rectifier turn AC to DC in a very efficient way

Dude, he explained very clear, how can you not understand this?

Captain Capellini I know exactly what a FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!! is but I still have watched this 300 times because it’s funny (not kidding this is literally my 300th time now)

Ikr

Let's not forget the RMS gais.

Benjamin Faure There is not much to learn from this video. It doesn't cover true RMS voltage and synchronous rectification.

No AC-DC band reference pls!

Doug Ankrum FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!!!!!!!

Captain Capellini I

it converts AC voltage to DC voltage

A full bridge rectifier is ElectroBOOM's "It's not a puny single diode" slogan plus the Full Bridge Rectifier serves in every big block wall adapter as a literal AC to DC. Every time you see a big block wall adapter think of it for the best.

slow learner? well enjoy the joke while you learn, it will only take some time

accurate

Captain Capellini b

+Sand Pox It's allright ;) I assumed it just was a typo

Same

Captain Capellini dude no one watches this vids for knowledge they watch it cuz it's funny

🖑🐻🖐

Tibor J. Bug eyes

BEAR

حريق in arabic

, sir

I HEARD YOUR NAME IN PRINCETON

xD

Try again

ElectroBOOM be like: 🤪

Why using a NTC resistor? Why can't we use a standard resistor? (I'm just curious no offence! ^^)

 @wuukaa9079  that way, once you start the circuit it's cold and limits current and holds the inrush current, but as the circuit runs the resistance drops to allow the circuit to run more efficiently now that the capacitors are already charged, this setup is common on Desktop PC power supplies

or can we limit the current with resistors , just before the C ?

 @SametALTUNSOY  You can limit the current with a resistor, yes, but that will limit the amount of current that the circuit can consume all the time, so it also limits how much power it can supply to anything attached to it, too.

The benefit of thermistors is that they can have high resistance initially (when you first turn it on), for just a brief time (long enough to limit things while the capacitors are charging), but then after it has been on for just a little bit, their resistance will drop to be very small, so they don't get in the way of providing higher current to downstream devices from then on.

Sooooo….capacitor inrush CURRENT causing the spark? 

That’s weird since a capacitors purpose is to resist a change in voltage 

Is it voltage or current?

 @123ElectricMonkey  Capacitors don't really "resist a change in voltage".  Capacitors store voltage (more correctly, they store electric charge).  That means that if the voltage would normally drop because the supply is not providing enough voltage anymore, the capacitor can supply electricity from its internal stores to make up the difference, which also keeps the voltage from dropping as fast (and then if the voltage goes back above what they have remaining, they will fill up their storage again).

However, that also means that at the very beginning, when they have no stored charge at all, if you apply a voltage to them, they will consume it as fast as they can to charge up as quickly as possible, and with large capacitors, that results in a really high initial current (to charge them up).  Once the capacitors are all charged up, then they don't draw any current anymore (unless their charge dips below the supplied voltage level).

***** So will his health, I'm sure.

Also make sure you will not get death or paralysed.. 

Time to go figure out how to change my game sounds.

im bearly a fetus and i understand 120% of things said by Mr Sadaghdar

Most people don't bother teaching themselves this stuff, you're probably way behind in different areas of knowledge. Don't act like you're smart because you read the wikipedia page on diodes and this guy didn't.

me too. i am studying shakespeare and gender studies.

Lol im just in grade 8 i dont understand a thing

Wow! It's the one and only UnknownPlayer from UnknownPlayer's GroundBattles!!

I️ JUST turned thirteen I️ I️ learned this stuff last year on my own

EXACTLY! I WAS WAITING FOR THAT!

"Ha ha ha you thought the circuit was gonna blow, oh no no no! Sir, this expensive, I careful!"

because THE F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F I E R ! ! ! NEVER DO THIS WITH MEHDI

*Disappointed

Actually he doesnt fake most of the incidents, they are scripted of course but not faked. He surely wouldnt put himself in extreme danger on purpose but the things that happen arent exaggerated and could happen exactly like this. Im quite sure everyone has been zapped by a high voltage capacitor before, whether being in a camera or a bug zapper or any powerful power supply and although it sounds funny, it indeed is dangerous and you should always discharge them.

zapped by a discharging capacitor i guess

ElectroBOOM
Há 2 anos
+DrR1pper It's thee same DC, just that different spots on body have different feeling. The palm of the hand shocks a bit harder.

Oh look chems is here

Full bridge Rectifiers...... in a nutshell 😂😂😍😍

POWER OF CAAAAPAAACCCIIIITOOOORR

Hi,osama ! I your big fans! Would you like to go boom somewhere with me?

dry skin v. wet/sweaty skin, resistance changes by orders of magnitude...  Besides he fakes a lot of stuff for effect, not dumb you know!

🏴

that was my old account that got deleted which means the comment got deleted too.

i was hoping he'd reply again :(

He got shocked from the capacitors which hold AC

AC charge. Its very painful

 @paganmin80  haha

I've lost count of how many times I've watched this video just because of "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER"

Easily my favorite ElectroBOOM video.

Your videos would have been a life saver in physical science classes.

Dude, you're so goddam funny. I have never laughed to a YouTube channel this much.

The risks you make, and ending with explosions are so fucking hilarious XD XD

Keep up the good work :-)

2:58 "we are safe now"

Well, I wouldn't say that

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER 

I would probably invest in gloves.

This video is sponsored by a bear

This guy reminds me of the time when I was a kid, and I cut the lamp cord to a lamp, but forgot to unplug it first.

Came to see if you would zap yourself, was not disappointed. Thanks, Mehdi.

I'm only here to see you hurt yourself in order to be concerned if you're gonna be ok.
Careful out there Mehdi.

good video. A story of my own fuckup:

I was doing work on a small electric car which is a two car-battery 48v system, and I was trying to rig up a shunt resistor on the positive rail and probe the output to see the current.

The car is isolated from ground because it's running on batteries and is up off the floor on rubber tires, so not a problem to attach the ground of the probe to a point which is right on the positive rail. I'm sitting in the seat of the car with about 4 alligator clip leads draped across my lap and doing some tests while looking at the scope on the bench. As I'm free-running the motor without a chain the vibration makes the car roll back just slightly and the metal frame touched the apparently grounded metal wall behind me. The wires in my lap light up and some stuff caught on fire with a bang.

You know he's smart when he can explain complex terms to a layman 
Love your videos

Subscribed. 
Anyone that is brave enough to demonstrate what CAN go wrong deserves it.
Hope his scars heal soon.

0:01¡FOOL BRIDGE RECTIFIAH!

0:01 ElectroBOOM Loves To Say “FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!”

3:55 BRO I WAS LAUGHING AT THE NOISE HE MADE I CANT BREATH HELP

0:55 So, you're saying that FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER is a direct counter to Magnus? I should spread the news!

It's FOO BRIDGE REKTIFIA!

hello guys from last linus tech tips video about power supplies

2:20 I fell asleep, now I'm woke

SamuelCish i don't know what to do,
But I'm an expert on what not to do.

I kno man especially wen he did dat wave sign wid his hands it looks lyk his eyebrows lool

Hey nitro

yep, as of September 1st 2017, still here.

Bamith Good for you.

This comment was posted one year ago. WHY ARE YOU REPLYING TO IT NOW.

Bamith lmao XD

can confirm still here

Tunnelbear

HAHAHHAHA

Russian bear, actually.

Grizzly bear

***** You know, I'm really not sure how to react to a comment like this. Thanks?

Brian Borst You're welcome.

engineers are weird, I guess the cat guide was not enough.

Brian Borst We're all sadists...

Reversal | Boom Beach & Clash Of Clans As far as I know, he NEVER actually got hurt, it is just to teach about electronics and safety measures in an entertaining way. Still love him, he is awesome!

Miguel Almeida Although almost all of his accidents are on purpose he has hurt himself unintentionally which he has explained in another video.

The crazy shit happens at 3:06 for those wondering
http://youtu.be/sI5Ftm1-jik?t=3m7s

 @HectorJimenez-hk9ml  it is a normal thing for mehdi bro

Cool Story bro👍

TL;DR the walls are grounded, it blew up.

just give a fucking TLDR !!

Foul Bridge Rektifya

I did not expect to find DotA here... :D

The new BkB , exclusively for magnus.

***** no more reversed polarity :O

Krytyk15 Well, EMPOWER is nice, but without RP Magnus will never be the same.

I did not see that coming.

***** YaphetS's reflexes.

kimoyofficial i thought he retired.
If so, why would he keep poisoning himself with stims?

*****
true

kimoyofficial who did?

"It's not going to JUMP at you" I just love how he gets closer to the camera saying that.

1:52 Electricians when they watch Electroboom

I wish he was my lecturer. 

To this day, the full bridge rectifier meme is still my favorite

I was disassembling a cordless drill battery charger for parts and got excited when I desoldered the full bridge and realized what it was.... because of this electro boom and his enthusiasm about them. Keep going boom and I’ll keep watching

3:15 That's not a full bridge rectifier, it's a full bridge recti-FIRE!!! Badum-Tsss...

this is the backbone of his channel

legend says this guys is immune to shocks

you mean A FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!!!

I’m going into welding for my career, but I’m also learning electrical work and studying electrical work just for fun and this guy is not only hilarious, and fascinating to learn from, but he shows what your NOT supposed to do which I love because all that looks painful affff! Lol

Here after LTT video where Linus disappointed me by not pronouncing it correctly.

As you can see, we now have a FOOOL BREEEEEDGE RECTIFAIA!!!

Been watching Electroboom for years and am finally getting into FBR in my semiconductors class in Computer Engineering. Super cool to come back to some of these older videos for some fun learning!

You jumped at the end from residual capacitance yet held your finger across it earlier to show that the DC voltage wasn't particularly dangerous. Hmmmmm :)

I clicked for it.  I really did.  Mehdi made me wait a full 2 seconds!!

I was literally expecting 325V DC as I live in 230V country 😂

Am I the only one when watching this tries to guess when he’s about to get hurt

I've missed you <3

I've been watching these videos since I was in high school and now I'm a systems engineer and came back to this video because I needed to refresh my circuit knowledge for work XD

3:11
that was pretty spectacular  :D

*1:53 maybe?

 @soroushjm1011  It starts at 1:52

you're good

Fool bridge rectifire

punny

Lol

I love you

Yeah, because DC from the output and DC from a capacitor are two different things.

Large amount of charge delivered in a short time through a capacitor.

Omkar Pradhan
cool, ta :)

Here's a clue: "Let's plug it in and see what happens".
Though I think he creates these explosions on purpose....

this was so funny, like safety level -100%

I learn more from one of your videos than a weeks worth of almost useless lectures

I'm in the process of a career change from construction to electrical engineering and your videos help me develop my practical understanding of that the math tells me. . Thank you for all your effort.

3:52 , turn on CC. "High power testicle driver"

Who needs horror movies when you have ElectroBoom!

I clicked this video for educational purposes only, but seems like i was wrong there was a bonus tip keeping the viewer entertained while learning.Really enjoyable keep up the good work.

The Full Bridge Rectifier sounds like something Billy Mays would sell

HI BILLY MAYS HERE FOR THE FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

I love your videos sooo much, you can make even the most boring things seem like the most interesting.

Bruh I laughed and learned something I needed for university. Best channel ever

lol ... every time you poke wires into stuff Electro I cringe ... waiting for something to bang and flash ... lol 😄

I think the best "rectifier" I made was... I used a center tapped transformer, with 4 capacitors and 4 diodes, to make a dual rail voltage doubling rectifier... though it was probably only half wave, it did what I needed it to do.

You need to add a bleeder resistor across capacitor though.

1:40 that nearly made my heart stopped

Dude, your videos are great, you are hilarious and you explain things in a way I can understand, could you make an induction heater and explain it's components and how it works ?

"wow i was holding that"

I only watched half the video can I make a half bridge rectifier

I can't stop hearing the remix when I see this episode.

I died when you forget about that burning hot resistance

So 170V DV doesn't hurt... Until you unplug the damn thing and touch the capacitor which have only some of the 170 V DC.

Puts piece of tape on ground 


 We are safe now 

10 seconds later 

Baaaam explosion

3:41 "I let it cool down for a while, and....."

High power tesla coil driver lol

High-poverty a coil driver circuit oh

Tesla Coil!

English-auto generated

Same

Most of the things he does is intentionally to educate us not to do things and how to do it correct way.  That time he didn't get a actual shock but acted to say that capacitors do hold charge and can cause explosion if shorted even when unplugged

Because his palm is more sensitive.

Why is it so ? I also have that question.

 @chinmoytahbildar3278  It is NOT so. You will feel DC voltage from 45V upwards, depending on the conditions.

Probabily because his palms were sweaty.

 @anti-fz9be  Knees weak

I’m guessing his palms were slightly sweaty and he got a bit of a buzz from it rather than an actual shock. Some of the pain is acted to encourage safety

His hand was probably sweaty or he touched the capacitors with a more conductive part of the skin on his hand

Also i assume it is more painful too when you dont expect it

My guess is that the current spike of rapid discharge of the capacitor behaves similarly to AC which passes through humans more easily.

Because capacitor discharge Voltage is neither AC nor DC.

Because of the current a capacitor can deliver?

Is this zeuses channel?
Cuz he takes electricity like a champ

Thanks linus

DO NOT ATTEMP ANYTHING HE HAS DONE IN THIS VIDEO

You've come a long way.  What a throw back.

Just so you know, you are my new God.

I have a motor that runs on 120v DC and was wondering how to make it work. Now I know.

Man this guy's video gives me so much anxiety. Maybe one of my ancestors got struck by lightning and lived to have me.

Came back to see the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER in action

0:36 you missed one

You are the real man in word

0:08 normal heart rate turns into a flatline

This is the number one search result for full bridge rectifier

When he says "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER" with the sound effect, all I can think about is the Wizard from Warcraft 2...

How about Free Energy already. Isn't it 2015?! It's time you contribute something of worth to humanity.

1:39 JUMPscare

Wow this guy's an absolute MADLAD.

Every time I hear the words FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER I smile, even when I’m feeling down

this guts is hella funny dude.

Can you believe there are people who don't like this guy just because of his background?

Love this style of teaching. Boring teachers should take note.

He did this to us

Oh you bet I'm going to attempt it. But I'm a third year electrical engineering student so I think I'll  be ok.

Okay, I won't blow a fuse

Oh dam I found your coment too late.

May the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER be upon You. Amen

Check his website if you wanna make it like him

I'd be more worried if your heart rhythm was a sine wave lol

​​ @LunaWuna No, monomorphic ventricular tachycardia can present with a pulse unlike asystole, and even pulseless monomorphic ventricular tachycardia is easier to resuscitate since it's shockable. To conclude, monomorphic ventricular tachycardia is a better rhythm than asystole since asystole isn't shockable and has low survival rates, however, monomorphic ventricular tachycardia is easier to resuscitate since it is shockable, can present with a pulse (and if so, can be controlled with antiarrhythmic medications alone, or DC cardioversion, as opposed to AC cardioversion which is not recommended.

Normal heart rate? That is clearly a monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, that's not normal, and it's the rhythm, not the rate. Also, we refer to "flatline" as asystole.

Or maybe the Protoss from Starcraft...

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ the 1s law of thermodynamics says you cant get something from nothing meaning nothing is free wind, solar are not free its just an energy that it measured in a different way 

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ
Dude, we already know what you're talking about, we're just telling you that your concept of "free energy" is always seen as getting energy out of nowhere.

Transforming wind into energy is not entirely "free", and the same goes for solar power.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ
Dude, nobody pays me anything, you can't get energy out of nowhere, you can convert other kinds of energy into electricity, but you can't get energy from nothing.

Solar energy is not free, the energy comes from the Sun, is not "free" by any means.

And every time any of you nuts says "TRUTH", I know it means "bullshit".

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ
Wind and sunlight are not "free", energy is used for us to get wind and solar light, sure you can use wind to have energy, but it is by no means "free energy".

I think there's a misunderstanding here.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ
If you use solar panels you still have to pay for them, and those are not really efficient.

Your average solar panel is about 20% efficient, and it all depends on the amount of light, it takes just a few clouds and some dust over the panel to decrease its efficiency.

... you pay for solar panels that's a cost...

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ you don`t see any problems with "free energy"? To make solar battery or wind turbine sometimes we must dig big hole in earth or use plenty of energy to build it. There`s no free energy

Sheesh!..too much bickering and debate over whether to call it "free energy" or not because it costs money to buy the equipment to build whatever device...just build the friggin' shit and get the show on the road! ...and be careful not to get shocked from it! :)

elliottatk lastname Wind and sunlight are free my dude. Where have you been?

Gordon Freeman Are you mad? How is energy from the sun not free??! Do you know what 'FREE' means?

Gordon Freeman I'm talkin 'FREE' as in you and I, the consumers shouldn't have to pay money for it. That kind of free energy. Free electricity to the world. It IS possible. 

Solar/wind power is free on the long run, if that's what you meant by "free energy".

You guys are only saying this because the government wants you to think that those things are conspiracies.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ Lets say that the world is powered by solar, you will still have to pay the power company, they maintain the solar panels, they maintain the lines, they buy solar panels form factories, etc. You will still have to pay for it. But lets say you have your own solar panel in your house, you will still have to pay for maintenance if anything breaks, you will have to buy the solar panel, which isn't cheap, etc. That's like saying "if we can create food out of thin air, food will be free"

You are not grasping the larger picture. Everything in your mind is bought and sold. In a REAL utopia there would be people giving their time freely for maintenance and supplying of goods. It's all about labor cost. The goods and materials are already supplied naturally. There could be a system put in place where the children are taught how to make the solar panels when they are young in school and how to maintain them. People culd then maintain their own units in their homes. Goods and materials could be supplied from volunteer efforts. It's ALL possible but just as in your mind you see it 'impossible' so does the vast majority of our species. 

The goods and materials are already supplied naturally that's not true tell me where do you find  aluminium naturally silicon copper or iron ... none is they have to be processed which use large amounts of energy 

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ With the technology we have nowadays, it's naive to think that we can get energy solely from renewable sources, otherwise, we would have solar panels and wind turbins all over the place, which would cost tremendous amounts of money. Fortunately, these sources are becoming cheaper and cheper, so, maybe in a century?

Terry McKean I mean the part of him being despised by the elites and after his death all of his contribution confiscated by the government

Power Max Well said

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ One of such "free energy" devices is actually a boost converter (that one powering 20+ LEDs with an AA battery).
A boost converter is a type of switch-mode power supply. It's like a step-up transformer, but for DC power.

thats no free energy you would lose amps if your voltage went up 

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ don't listen to those trolls that are paid by the government to spread wrong facts.

alecman95 your on to us good thing you don't know about plunging a extension board into itself makes unlimited free power 

alecman95 how about you going to college and learning electronics engineering?
And MEH, you think everyone in the internet is a US citizen? Shame on you for thinking that.
My government is too greedy and corrupt to pay me for telling the truth.

And FYI, "free energy" from the ether violates the law of conservation of energy.

Danilo Margarido I don't need colleges, I rather trust blogs with <100 followers, but because of the government they can't expose their views to the public.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ Give him a break...Mehdi is doing just fine with what he has going here on YouTube. 
How's this for a free energy device: 
On a plot of land of a few acres or so, plant some tall posts along the perimeter of that land. String a single wire long the top of those posts, one post to the next. Wrap that wire around that perimeter of land for a few loops, making a giant coil. Connect the two leads coming from of that big coil of wire to  volt meter. There will be voltage read on the meter display. The magnetic lines of force moving around the Earth will be inducing that voltage in that coil. But, be careful...you might get a bad shock off of those two leads. :)

You can confirm this phenomena by contacting Art Bell, the founder of the ''Coast-to-Coast A.M.'' radio program. He did what I just described, on his property in Nevada  a few years or so ago. He confirmed that the voltage was NOT being picked up off of any power lines, etc. He had to set up a circuit between that big coil and his amateur radio equipment..the purpose of his coil is an antenna..a loop antenna. Just a few turns comprised that big coil.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ Seems to me that you've heard about The Venus Project.

wojtek b yes there is and it's what capitalism is based on.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ so you want him to be another Tesla?

Mahendra Krisnamurti Hmmm...you know?..with the photos I've seen of Nikola Tesla sitting among high-voltage generators and casually reading the daily paper as the bolts of electricity dance all over him and out of him and  into him and all over everyplace, I think Mehdi does a very good likeness of Nikola :)

Mahendra Krisnamurti understood, bro..just my little non-sequitur humor-entry into the mix :)... you bring up a good point....nowadays the 'elites' are having an evil good ol' time misusing the technologies Nikola discovered, with things like the H.A.A.R.P. device and similar devices now positioned around the planet, "experimenting" with the ionosphere layers around the Earth

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ wind, water, and solar are not free. It takes effort to harness those sources. Economics 101. Google "there is no free lunch" argument if you want to see why your argument is invalid.

Basically, you expended your energy and time (scarce resources) to do work for someone else, and you claim you do not want any reimbursement for it, so therefore it cost you. You paid for it with your limited time, energy, and effort. Sure, someone else may get it for 'free' or with minimal effort (cost) because you paid for it... That is obvious. Similarly, Mehdi was the one who expended time and energy to making videos therefore making the videos cost him, and the reason he does not expect you to directly pay for it is because he wanted to make videos for fun and educating people, enjoys the interaction he gets from the YT community, and more than likely, gets paid to some minimal degree by advertisements and monetization.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ Sounds like the argument the hardcore communists argued. If ownership was forbidden, and everyone was allowed to take stuff and give stuff away freely, and religion was forbidden, people would have nothing to live or die for, and crimes, stealing, and stuff would seize to exist. Everything would be a free "utopia" RIGHT??? Nope.

Google the lyrics to "Imagine." I am sure you can sympathize. BUT communism failed, just like you probably will, if you put any effort in achieving that fictional utopia.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ The sun is not free, because it is a raw resource that has to be processed to be useful. (other than keeping the earth habitable, I mean.)

Someone has to BUILD solar panels or mirrors to focus it and harness it, that is $$$.  Then someone has to MAINTAIN those solar panels, that is more $$$, and $$$ per year, and then it takes effort to build infrastructure to move and store the energy for useful applications, MOAR $$$$. Again, no free lunch. Someone, or something has to pay.


If you consider the sun, it is a limited resource. It can only output so much energy over it's life, and can only output a finite rate of every exchange over time. (moving energy is essentially the definition of power. energy != power.) If we were theoretically capible of harnessing every last bit of it, price and demand would become very real. Even if we only consider the sun energy hitting the earth, since we only can live on the earth.* Everyone would want the sun to themselves, and the trade of solar "realestate" would be bid up the price, again, limited resource. Imagine solar farms covering the face of the planet and moon, and people freely buying and selling the land with solar collectors on them, just like real estate.

Electricity? No, we won't see free electricity in the foreseeable future.Energy itself, however, is free since the dawn of the first animals. Just go out to the wild and hunt animals or eat some fruit. It is all free.

physics and thermodynamics??! GTFO of here unless you have something intelligent to say. The only argument here is cost of labor. The transfer of energy from one source to another can be done in so many different ways. Wireless transmission as well. You don't even know about Tesla yet you come on here and ramble your nonsense. Go play in traffic.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ stopped reading after you said you don't need to be intelligent to know physics or thermodynamics... 

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ "physics and thermodynamics??! GTFO of here unless you have something intelligent to say. " that implies that physics and thermodynamics aren't hard to master, since you called the two topics unintelligent... learn english bruh

Even if you are younger, use your time to do something useful such as volunteering, consider things like internships, and higher education. Make a POSITIVE impact on the world, and that will carry you through life much further than giving yourself the appearance of some stupid, non-sociable ignorant troll living in your mom's basement, pointlessly arguing the possibility of trivial things like overunity.

MrPacman64 No need to teach trolls how to spell, let them look stupid, and them realize on there ownwhat problems that will cause them in life. ;)

giorgos taskik lol there's nothing wrong with liking tesla, he did things nobody had ever done before, in fact, hes the reason power is much cheaper than it is, AC travels much much farther than DC, It would have been free too, if he had gotten his coils to work like he wanted them to. Anyway, saying "tesla fanboy" is like saying "Gibson fanboy" when talking about guitars, its quite obvious that gibson did something nobody had ever done before, and still dont do, otherwise the company wouldn't have done as well as it did and has been doing since. There is also no problem with liking the idea of free energy, free being without money, not over-unity. thats like saying that you made a machine that gives free candy out to kids, and then condemning the one who made it because its free... it makes no sense.

TLDR: You're angry over something that is good for you and a good idea...

giorgos taskik big whoop, you visited his museum, so did I, but if you visit an art museum, does that make you an artist? I also highly doubt you had anything to do in the saving of his old lab. To add on to all this, you say you read articles that involve simplified science, which means you obviously don't know enough to get the real, unsimplified version, so im not sure how that's working out for you. ALSO, canada offers free healthcare, the US government offers quite a bit of free things, it's just that nobody knows about them, just look up "free things provided by the government", and that's all i really cared to research before typing this very sentence. Im also pretty sure you don't know how any of tesla's wonderful inventions worked, so if you would please leave and never come back, that'd be great.

ⱤᴱᴬᴸҬᴬᴸᴷ i accept your meaning of "free energy" as "there is energy what everybody can use", also i would prefer "free energy" instead of "energy converting to other energy"

giorgos taskik lol great, first year, so impressive, I defiantly haven't been doing it for almost my entire life. (oh wait, yea I have) Also there is no way you are a first year anything, since you fail to even use basic English, which I would understand if English is your second language, but then again, its mine too.

giorgos taskik I don't either, I don't have to lol.

Yaxel Perez gr8 b8 m8, r8 8/8

MrPacman64 gr256 b256 m256, r256 256/256

Viktor B.
The thing is, when someone mentions "free energy" almost 99% of the time, is one of those BS "perpetual motion" things, or trying to get energy out of nowhere.

Solar energy is not actually "free" since you have to buy the solar panels, the same goes for any other form of "green" energy.

Viktor B.
I agree with you.
But you know that on youtube you have to be careful with the term "free energy".

no free energy. so where the hell does lighting come from!!lol. that's a lot of free energy right there, just stand out side with a long pole and you're good to go.lol.

You best start believing in troll threads... You're in one.

Anyway, it's a couple of months old and, well, considering the dude's icon it's safe to say he's trolling, but the problem is that some people actually believe what he's saying. Let's remember a few things, though, before we start demanding free anything:

1) Manufacturing costs are a thing. It costs material and manufacturing time to make things like wind mills, hydropower turbines, solar cells, etc. Those things cost money. Maintaining the equipment that manufactures these things are also costs money. Building the equipment that manufactures these things? Yup. That costs money too.

2) Power grid maintenance costs money. The wires that bring juice to your door don't get evoked from the ether. It has to be made from wire and then sealed and insulated. Like the other stuff, this costs material and manufacturing time... which costs money. The elements will eventually have their way with these things between simple erosion, downed trees, people hitting poles with their cars, etc and they will need to be replaced with time. In order to even properly control electrical output, you also need regulating equipment and - nowadays - computers. Those things ALSO need to be maintained, buildings need to be staffed, technicians need to be trained and paid.

Nothing in this world is free nor should it be. Even if the source of power is free, the actual stuff that converts it from sunlight/water flow/wind to usable electricity in your outlet is not and never will be. Stuff is finite, food costs money and people like to enjoy a little bit of luxury that comes with their paycheck.

If his background was really that much of an issue, he could try setting up a banner behind him to make his videos more visually appealing.

Ignore lowlives, embrace science.

well, the window blinds are hideous.

People are racist and stupid?
What's new?

Gaurav Rai acheaminid empire dipshit

originally the whole indian subcontinent was called India.

What? Just because he's an electrical engineer?

Not surprised 

however

I am jewish and i love this guy

I always knew those sales people never liked us engineers! it's time to double down on the efforts to automate them out of their jobs.

Rodrigo Duterte is trying so hard to seem nonchalant. He even said kek! and called him a kid! Edgy. Shame he was just wrong. Sounds like he isn't even aware of the dark ages! Now thats what I call naivety.

romans made europe important.

@Adi Adiani You should limit the amount of exclamation marks in your sentences, makes you sound racist. And a know-it-all, which I despise much more than racists. Thing is, I believe (as Buddhists do) that racism is a consequence of ignorance. Which is not "not knowing things", rather than "being absolutely sure that what we know is undeniable truth".

This being said, I don't care if he's Persian or whatever, nor I care about the backgrounds of his videos. This guy is damn good, and that's all I care about.

+Galactic Ruler now you just sound desperate. :)

Daniel Schmitz Lol, that was only till banks of river Indus which is in pakistan and that too for smaller period.

Gaurav Rai bhai tu padha likha hai?

Rodrigo Duterte they were getting their butts whooped by the Sassanian (Neo-Persian) empire. Do your research.

Rodrigo Duterte See, you can't prove a point.

Gaurav Rai Achaemenid Empire, Sassanian Empire, Safavid Empire... Do your research.

Gaurav Rai Acahemenid Empire, Sassanid Empire, Safavid Empire... Do your research.

Gaurav Rai Algebra came from Persia literally do some research.

He doesn't look 2000 years old to me

This isn't a political channel. Don't bring your BS politics into everything.

Stop using this channel for your liberal propaganda, trying to demonize conservatives with bullshit claims.

414aliha they lost when they tried to invade Europe through Greece

His background is electrical engineering. Thanks!

Youtube comments contain more unhealthy stuff than a McDonald's cheeseburger.  There's poison everywhere these days.  I think it's caused by too many people still living in their mom's basement.  Rock ON, Mahdi!

I did not calculate anything, I just read the history. Persian empire at the time was way more dominant than the Romans and the direct battles between them prove my point.

He is Persian.. 2000 Years ago, when they were ruling the world, they wouldn't like savage westerns either.. That'S just the matter of time and who knows what will happen in 2000 years from now!

2000 Years ago, The roman empire was ruling the world.
Calculate again.

Franc Von Villion.. Yes.. so true

The Satanic Gamer From Hell - I'm a Muslim and i love you

414aliha Persia barely held any important regions, while The Roman Empire held most of Europe for a long time.
What the Persian Empire had was a large amount of Soldiers, but that didn't help them, because they did not step a foot inside Europe.

414aliha Europe had the most resources.

This brother is really awesome.His greatness is he explains the precautions to be taken  while performing an experiment in a realistic way.

Hi Mehdi, could you explain why you get 170VDC over the cap even tough the max amplitude of the FULLBRIDGERECTIFIER is 120VDC at 1:00? Thanks, really love your videos!

Hi i'm a big noob but i'd like to make a regulator/rectifier for a friend's motorcycle because they tend to die quickly and they are so fcking expensive (i mean regulators/rectifiers not my friends LOL). Would you explain it to me by any chance?

Well planned safety awareness video

Thx man told the school teacher if we could wacth you and we wacthed entire class time

2:34 -- Oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh!!!  Probe, HOW DARE YOU pop fuses while being grounded!  That's it, with some capton tape on the ac ground prong, you are now grounded grounded grounded grounded grounded grounded grounded safely! When Mehdi is done you will go to your room and never ever come out!

+ElectroBOOM Firstly, i love your vids!

Why did the capacitors on the rectifier only shock you when it was disconnected from the mains? You were able to touch the 166V DC output earlier but towards the end got a nasty shock doing the same. The only difference i can see is that in the latter it was disconnected from the mains. Am i missing something?

Thanks

Its been 5 years, but still fun!

OHHHHHH! SO THAT'S HOW I RUINED THE $700 SCOPE IN THE CONTROLS LAB!

3:20 I though it's 289W?

Linus brought me here

4:04 who tought the resistor was going to burn him again?

if only teachers would explain material this easy. they tend to over complicate things. great work man.

Who is here after the new LinusTechTips video just dropped ?? 😂 
Video title: How does a power supply work ?

3:48 So it should have an inductance too then but they don't have.

You always find the right amount of boom to education.

@ElectroBOOM, thanks for the amazing explanation! Could you pleas explain how the AC current runs through 0:14 , your diode arrangement? 
Many thanks!!

Convo between my co-host and I while filming an episode about AC last night:
Me: Let's hook it up to more power
Him: Should we shock ourselves?
Me: Like Mehdi?
Him: Yup!
Me: K

Linus fans around?

"As you can clearly see, I have no regards for safety, Don't be like that" 🤣🤣 I lol'd after he said that 🤣

+bume nicläs The input is 120VAC, which means it has 170V peaks. And through bridge rectifier they result in around 170VDC.

Thanks for the reply,  so the 120VAC is RMS?

+bume nicläs VAC * sqrt(2) = rectified and filtered 

120VAC*sqrt(2) = ~170VDC

Husker so annoying when you just trying to help and your friends just go like "nope" and dies

In case you still need help with that, the thing in the motorcycle is a magnet fixed on a rotating part of the motor + a coil + a diode (rectifier) + some circuitry to not go over the battery voltage (regulator)
You need to find what dies first. 
Then you can replace what breaks. 
You can get some quite big diodes from old pc power supplies, look for the thing on the radiator which has one or two diode symbols, if it has 2 connect the tails and heads together, replace the diode with that (and screw it on a metal plate with some isolation in between, you can also pickup the radiator from the psu)

Add a capacitor behind the diode and plug it with the - strip  opposite to the bar on the diode (you can salvage those from the psu too, make sure the voltage on it is over  25V.)
Then get a buck/boost converter from aliexpress, make sure it outputs 14V and plug that on the capacitor and the battery.
You should be able to make a coil from an old micowave transformer by cutting it to size and wrapping some thicker wire around the center till you get 16-20V behind the capacitor with a load attached.
The coil also might need to output high voltage to the spark plug, so you should keep the thin wires of the microwave transformer.

Galactic Ruler it wasnt a joke tho, its a super annoying thing

+Filip Edwardh If you want your joke to be funnier, remove the "go like "nope and" from your sentence.

+DrR1pper It's thee same DC, just that different spots on body have different feeling. The palm of the hand shocks a bit harder.

***** Ahhh, ok, so if you had touched the output with your palm when also connected to mains, you would have received the same shock? Thanks dude! Please keep making your awesome vids! They're hilarious and very educational (at least for me :P).

DrR1pper It says content unavailable. However, you're in the right place. Electroboom actually has a full video debunking probably the same guy you saw.
Cheers

+ElectroBOOM Do you ever get used to receiving electric shocks? I have been shocked once in my life and I can't describe any feeling like it, it's terrifying!

well... it kind of depend a lot on the circunstancie. I have got many 240v shocks, and usually don't think much of it ... (apart from: shit let me avoid that!) but once i got a shock when i had a live wire in one hand and neutral in the other (because i'm stupid!)... i almost shit myself.

+ElectroBOOM I haved 240 AC shock from electric socket.... at age 8.

I've been "buzzed" (110AC or whatever I was working on at the time) several dozen times by now, and "shocked" once (about 2kv). To answer your question, you actually do get used to getting buzzed after the first few times. Don't get me wrong, it still hurts and will make you jump and all, but it's not as terrifying after you've done it a few times

Range Rover i was soldering already at 4years old. Been shocked bij 240v ac like 100s of time

Actually if youre touching earth you would get a nasty shock because both the positive and the negative DC output of a bridge rectifier are AC referenced to ground, so showing how you touch the DC output without mentioning that you arent grounded is really dangerous.

If you're bored and or have some spare time on your hands, would you guys mind watching this. http://www.insight.tv/#!/eab91/en/show/extraordinary-humans/episode-9/episode-9

(start ~20 mins in)

I don't normally watch such things (as i've seen others in the past and saw through them) but somehow came across this in passing and the part about a man being able to touch 240VAC mains without issue intrigued me. Whilst i'm still somewhat skeptical, the reasons they came to conclude as being the reason later on at face value appear to be plausible to me and think it would to you also. Was hoping someone with more more knowledge could tell me if it's all a trick or not. Hint...the guy supposedly does not sweat and they demonstrate a test for this.

There are parts in the show that i know are very misleading though. Like the parts where he holds two electrodes connected directly to the mains and dips them in water and boils the water but the presenter of the show says something to the effect of "the electricity that is boiling the water is passing through him" which is patently false as he is only in parallel contact to the circuit that is actually channeling the large amounts of current that boils the water. There are some wtf can't be real moments too in the video but i'll leave them for you to see.

You ruined it by making a FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER?

He rounded up to 300

Thanks you, now I'm in colleage, I understand that way better :3 @Owen_loves_Butters 

The capacitors doesn't hold enough power to glow the resistors

Except he only gave you a quick overview of the thing, not the ability to make your own.

They do, but with small change in current across the resistor inductance can be ignored

Assuming the top is line and the bottom is ground, on the positive cycle of the AC, diode 3 is reverse biased and blocks the current, while diode 1 is forward biased and allows the current through. Diode 2 is also reverse biased, while diode 4 is forward biased. Current flows from the line, through diode 1, and into the + side of the output, through whatever load, and then from the - side through diode 4 to ground. On the negative cycle of the AC, diode 1 is now reverse biased, while diode 3 is forward biased. Diode 2 is also forward biased, while diode 3 is reverse biased. Current flows from the ground through diode 2 and into the + side, then from the - side through diode 3 to line.

Those are usually found in cooling units lol

full bridge rectifayaaa

I forgot this channel name.... So i just searched "full bridge rectifier" and voila! I found it.

So do you shock or burn yourself for our amusement, or, are you really that careless?

“my fuse blew up ”

Who’s here after ltt

What has been your most painful shock?

0:22 turn on captions, you'll get it.

Was this really 7 years ago? I feel like its a month or so...

3:04 50v/Div?!!!

2:00 Umm, no it's not

[uses single diode rectifier to do 1 kilowatt. burns down house ]

Everytime this video randomly shows up in my feed I rewatch it and it's always entertaining.

Full Bridge Rectifier  

In Germany we call this

Vollbrückengleichrichter

What makes the capacitors dangerous if you can hold your finger between 166v DC?

subscraib

You make playing with life look fun.

Hello I am a good 😊 watching these videos

Will this work with 220V ac?

barely a bear with a bear hand

I miss these

Yup

"Do you lift or just happen to be a construction worker?"
"Yes"

GashimahironChl - haven't lol'd irl at a coment in a long time
You sir are talented

wait what

+Will Nolan lmao

Thank you! I appreciate the effort or lack there of!

When he saw his father having sex with his mother.

Oh... You mean electric shock? I think 220v 16a

Touching a light bulb socket in a lamp without a bulb in it, while it was turned on.......it hurt. I was like 5-6.

when I was in grade 12, a friend loaned me the igniter for an oil furnace (high voltage generator). I think it generated an arc about half an inch long. I was using it in the basement, bare knees on bare concrete floor. I touched the arc with a pencil that was burned along the side. There was enough conductance through the carbonized wood to give me a jolt that made my right arm feel like it being torn off. No burns or lasting damage, but I realized at that point that  ignoring all my knowledge of electricity could be fatal. Returned the igniter to my friend the next day.
On an interesting note, years later, I observed that my right arm is noticeably stronger than the left, despite being left handed. Doubt its cause and effect though.

I have no idea what the joke is

NikoLiberty2008 i dont get it

 @laurenceramos5399  Me neither. Wtf was the joke?

 @laurenceramos5399  Neither do I

One Direction 🤣

One Direction is a band

It means the horizontal lines mark 50V  each

It is. The human body has capacitance, so it resists DC much better than AC.

nadgoB Yes, but 340 volts DC, but speak to a priest first, as one slip-up and you will quite likely meet your maker!

nadgoB Will need to change some parts for higher voltage rating, but otherwise yes

***** capacitors to 220v? Does any kind of diode work for this? If i was wrong what should i use if you could spare a little time to write me the specs or something please.. heh i hope i am not bothering you

Julian Sortland I kind of spot welded a tool to a pair of connectors a month ago, since the caps in a circuit didn't discharge fast enough... So yeah, don't play with that. And always multiply the input voltage by the square root of 2

a bear's bear hands bare hand

2:41 Would that have been avoided if you had used an isolating transformer?

Thumbs up if you got here from a website called reddit

Linus sent me here

3:14 that's a lot of fun😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂

Can you not add a resistor into the circuit to automatically bleed the caps to ground when you power off?

My kapton tape smells severely like urine. I do not like kapton tape. Does all kapton tape smell terrible?

Hi, I did not understand the part if earth getting short at 2:40

I love FULL Bridge rectifiers.

the birth of the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIEEEEER!!!

1:35 "as you can clearly see,I have no regards for safety. Don't be like that!" 😁😁😁

You make solid state class fun!

Just restocked the refrigerator. Does that make me a 'Full Fridge Rectifier'?  On a slightly more  serious note this video made my day.  Keep up the good work.

Your older video style was much better man!
Simple yet still funny and educational

A full bridge rectifier best moment 0:01

The full bridge rectifier!!!

0:01 FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIAH

Some nights, I've got to visit here, just because I've not seen you, Mr. Boom, jump from a shock, and need a cathartic release.  Thank you very much for this.  Best "full bridge rectifier" video I've seen.

Best video on bridge rectifiers ... stay safe hobbyst

You show us how not to do things that will hurt us by hurting yourself... What a great guy...

What a great video. Probably the best explanation I have seen,of what a bridge rectifier is.

Yes. The voltage being probed would not be referenced to ground any more, so no dead short = no sparks.

Stop.

I didn't so thumbs down for you...

Pop Can *Tips Hat*

***** Don't be jealous of us redditors, my good sir.

*****
I guess that includes everyone in this thread (you too, Nick! :), or we wouldn't be here.

Can you stop spamming youtube with your alternate account? Write something constructive.

PlNKUHOSHI
Thumbs down no longer work.

Vladislav Zinchenko Yea that's the whole point of these types of accounts, theyre literally just trolls. That's the whole existence of that youtube channel. People dont have any fucking lives.

Liveleak :D

Le reddit army is here XD!!

I've been watching his video since his first video

eastendthug nahh.. i knew him from facebook page

dont care

*Bump*
I'm curious for answer too

Shouldn't smell - is it old or something?  Did anyone pee on it?

Kapton is polyimide based, so any prepolymers left over in the final product would probably smell like nitrogenous compounds such as urea found in urine.

I think you should use a different one. Mine smells just fine.

Me neither bro

Thanks, man you made my life worth live

Awesome video, great special effects. Not one boring second.

0:01 FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!!!!

3:37 
Behold, the Light Emitting Resistor!

He is halfway there !

This was the first video I saw from this channel

Love the Electroboom  Videos Mehdi

I have seen this video like 10 times. It never get old

Best Instructional Video ever!  I learned a lot fast, and almost asphyxiated rolling on the floor laughing.  Keep doing this!

Your videos are okay, but your unibrow is legendary!! Subscribed.

I like how he used a low voltage car fuse on his circuit.

Came here cus seamless linked this video in a podcast about fm synthesis and said it was awesome, I am not disappointed.

this is where the channel ACTUALLY started

this dude is killing me. litteraly.

I love that after some time I'm beginning to understand what you're talking about with the diagrams and I'm surprised, good with the teaching and with the jokes, much respect to you

This is one of the best examples of getting a resistance after many shocks

"I let it cool down for a while and s#!t!"
Gotta love Medhi, don't you?

What's up with bears in your language?! Lmao I can't 😂

Funny.  Thanks for your safety lessons

Im crazy to watch this crazy guy's full bridge rectifer at 4 in the morning bcuz i cant sleep

1:50 interesting question 😂

3:39

Electroboom: that
Resistor: f i r e

2:22 i came for the Electro ⚡i stayed for the Boom 💥

I learnt about them in high school. Cool stuff!!

0:01 F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F I E R

Who knew this would become a legend in the intellectual realm of YouTube!! Foooooooolllllll bridge rectifier

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!

3:03 "We're safe now." - Dude, I don't belive U

Best teaching yt video I've seen to date

The greatest merch? I finally have reached the level where i can understand stuff 😂

"As you can clearly see, I have no regards for safety."
your motto.

Удивляюсь, как этот чувак ещё жив! 😆

3:39
" I let it cool down for a while AND SH##- "

FULL RECTIFIER

Eight years later, and Mehdi is still connecting the ground probe from his oscilloscope to Neutral wite and shorting it to ground. Some people never learn... Others learn how to make a living off of their mistakes.

He taught what i learnt for a year in the first forty seconds

You know you watched a lot of electroboom when you see people plugging things in and preparing for the explosion

Silly Mehdi, if you don't want any ripple at the output, just short it to ground! No ripple, no deviation, just a clean zero volts!

"to avoid exciting fires" lmao

Wow. I feel safe watching Styro Pyro now.

The ceramic core reminds me a little about how most soldering irons work.

Thank you for expanding my brain

This is the video that started it all

It's amazing how he made a light emitting resistor

Man, good times.

Thus, the rectifier was born.

Gimme da FOOL BRIDGE RECTIFIRE

In his electrical videos in every first scene he gets fail then after pass. Keep it up.😁😁

Mehdi loves fullll bridgeee Rectifier

Full Bridge Rectifier gives off the same energy as Full-Flow Staged Combustion for some reason

i saw the comments on LTT's turbo nerd edition for power supply's and they mention full bridge rectifiers and the comments section goes crazy about your vid in them and i wasn't disappointed

Nice. This should be mandatory to watch for electronics students!

This is a talent than can make a simple rectifier video exciting to watch.

Bro made a fucking light bulb 😂😂💀💀

"And now I will turn my power bar on", 

It was at this moment he realized, he'd fked up

"S**t F**k, MY FUSE JUST BLEW". 
I almost cried in laughter

Like the way you explain everything with such good humour 😂

And the legendary icon was born

Sağolasın Burak reis.

Great vid. Thank you

Man I can’t believe it took me this long to find your channel but holy smokes I’m glad I did you’re funny as heck man!

Two  words... corona virus

one of the best videos on youtube I have ever seen. Thank you very much!

Such an amazing way to teach. Pure genius.

I feel like I know i'm learning from these videos when he's about to do something and I realize beforehand that it's going to explode. Awesome videos man thank you :)

THIS video is where the ElectroLegend is born!

Such a talented man in the world

Awsume man!!!
U are great.
U are only one who jump into the risk to elaborate the results.

Thum up for you.

I feel like this is the video that really launched Medhi's YouTube career

lmao he just holds the resistor with his fingers again at the end x)

Can’t concentrate for laughing 😂😂😂

You just made a LER(Light emmiting resistor)

I blew up my capacitors with a punt DC step up converter, but in the end I got a nice smoke bomb, thanks Mehdi

i love this guy so much

Lol - he created (uploaded) the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER on my birthday! Surprised to find that out.

This is classic Mehdi, it'll be on the Greatest Hits album some day!

Me: so Mehdi, what are your intres-   
Mehdi: FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

Im glad i sub to this channel 😎😎

ah yes...my favourite Electronic component combination ...Full Bridge rectum-fryer

you are my new idol ! love everything you do! hopefully one day you put out a video on your lifes journey so far!

We just learned this in school. These videos are just more interesting if you know what he's talking about.
Now i saw the release date...

He’s able to make that, but not a bridge for his electric guitar? The Fender Medhicaster.

It's definitely up there! For me, it was the "electric guitar" and the taken-down video of him lighting his mustache on fire with lighter fluid. 😂

Lol

I love how he see the spark and he left his hand on it anyway 3:14

The reactfier 🔥🔥🔥

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

@electroboom wish I knew about you while I was on college..could have really been beneficial to my studies. Keep up the great work brother!

This guy is better than any professor at any engineering college out there 😀

This is how many times he said FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

Huge respect for you❤

2:27 If you put on the subtitles *Switch to hell* lmaooooooo

came for the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

Only real Mehdi reply his comments

Man I love your videos . They are very fun and informative !

"Electro Master of pain" perfect name you should call your channel ;)

Scarier than any horror movies.

A genius of electricity and electronics, but at the same time a clumsy hehe. I like this guy.

If it weren't for Medhi's destructive nature, I would've never learned how resistors are made.

I love your teaching man.....keep it up

Mehdi has unlimited life

He murdered that poor resistor.

I just learned this subject in school!

Graetz Circuit!!!

Does anybody else here have no clue about anything he talks about, but continues to watch his videos because of his priceless reactions?

I used to watch his videos before collage now I got a degree for blowing stuff up and setting things on fire

A huge thank to Mehdi for this video. I was just about to probe my power supply that is earth grounded and I saw this video.You saved my probe (and perhaps my fingers)

Bear hands, lion wire (live wire) and crocodile connectors. You've assembled your own zoo

Good info, well done, thanks for sharing it with us :)

This man tell u all the safety measures, follows none of them himself, then burns or shocks or other things
Its like watching horror movie with background music.

This man is a Legend..

"wow i was holding that" O-O oh

Love your videos, Sir. You are an excellent teacher, very good at captivating your students! Who else can make you laugh AND take something seriously at the same time??

and thanks for your explanation.👍👍

I never 😂 so hard before this dude got shocked omg

The first time he jumped due to a spark, I nearly jumped off my seat! XD

love full bridge rectifaia♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️

Every kind of awesome my man!!
Could barely breathe with laughter xxx
My son first introduced me to you in a “capacitor wand” vid which was also very good!! 
.. don’t hurt yourself xxx

He had no regards for safety 🤣🤣🤣

Epic video

Thank youverymuch

Such a legend!

Fantastic!

“Don’t be like that” 😂😂

hahaha what's up with bear in the language

this guy is a legend

I came here for the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER sound

Electrobooms Best video!

I only showed this video again, to see Mehdi get shocked by a capacitor.

thanks for learning us in a funny mood.❤️

‏‪3:40‬‏ nice lamp

"As you can see I have no regards for safety" WOW :000000

This brings back memories of school and the dumb students blowing stuff up

"As you can clearly see I have no regard for safety. Don't be like that."  INSTANT SUB

1:34 when we are out of condoms..

This man gives me anxiety. This is 9 years later and he's still making videos and has plot armor and I STILL get anxiety from this

men i love your channel

First time I’ve seen him plug something in and it NOT explode

3:14 got me laughing

Haha full bridge rectifier go boom

I swear after the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER song him saying that feels different now💀

Lol..I barely make it through the video...but, the hilarious disasters keep me hanging on...barely...lol

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

...so this is where the running gag first got it's legs?

Fuuuuuuul bridge rectifier!

And that’s where it all started

haha funniest s*** i seen  in ages

1:52 mehdi listing why he keeps getting shocked

I think this man teaches better than my engineering college professors 👍😂

I didn’t understand why you had to tape the earth of the plug, i need a more detailed explanation

I thought this was electroboom not ElectroDoom

This guy has a serious stash of golden apples

MY FUSE JUST BLOW UP!

Tis educational vids are the best <3

He is just playing with that kid named ELECTRICITY.

That one part always makes me laugh! “I let it cool down for a while. AND SHIT!!!”

You can tell whether he knowns what he's talking about from if he blows something up or not

Smoky Bare Wires: “Only you can prevent electrical fires.”

at 2:00 i thought he was for sure going to electrocute himself

I wish I knew how to do this stuff

“We’re safe now”

1:40 unreal jumpscare.
You don't have to stay safe from this scene guys.

"See I've no regards for safety.
Don't be like this."

thx because of you i can’t say full bridge rectifier normally anymore 😂

You have  got those full bridged eyebrows  I could sure say that's going on for ya Charlie  brown  lol

The ground of the probe is connected to earth of the plug. So if you don't insulate the scope's earth pin it'll short the input mains to earth through the probe

What a hoot!

legends say that at the end he got burned again

This is approximately good.

Leave it to ElectronBOOM to reveal that a resistor and an incandescent light bulb are one and the same component.

Here from Linus tech tips video (How Power Supplies Work - Turbo Nerd Edition)

The kind of Professor we need..😂😂

Thank you sir I wish that you teached me electronic science l was making a bike and I need a 900w adapter so I learned from your video

Is this a full-wave bridge rectifier?

Superb👍

Imagine if your electronic engineering teacher shows this video to you and his students💀

Years ago during lockdown, 8th grade me used to watch this channel for the funny funny, but now in 12th, the same me is going to build a full bridge rectifier for school physics project. well, me and my team are gonna try to...
thank you Mehdi Sir, for being such an important part of my upbringing.

and history was made

Imaginen si todo usara este increíble aparato

man, you are awesome.. :3

"You have BEAR fists?"

Whenever he says “loose wires” you are bound to see him almost kill himself

LOL! "I let it cool down for a while, AND SH*T!!!"

If you place a neon across the caps it will give an "ON" light and then discharge the caps when switched off. maybe stuff a resistor in there as well.

And this is where it all started...

Where it all started

3:15 PEH!

Now I know why the Mesa/Boogie Rectifier (a popular guitar amplifier) is named that way. I thought this was about the amp.

I am just here for the comments

This guy is so sceary !
But he is also good in what he's doing !

Mehdi😊 Make a video on clippers, clampers, and power amplifiers(class A, AB , C , D)

I need a teacher who is not angry

F U L L L L L. L L LL L L L L L LL
BRIDGEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
RECTIFIERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR

FULL BRIDGE RECTUM FRYER

Thank you for such a nice videos. I have a small request , can you pls post a design circuit for 110v input AC to 12VDC using same bridge rectifiers

Thanks!

full bridge alchemist

3:14:
Taaaaa! (BOOMMMM)

Now I use resistors as soldering irons. Thanks

We learn English too 
He’s just a all in one type teacher 😂🔥
The teacher /YouTuber everyone loves

Dangerous and entertaining 😆

The origin story

I'ma diy my own psu now.

3:34 "суровый Канадский светодиод сигнализирует о незначительной перегрузке"

He's INVISIBLE!!!

This guy hurt himself in the Name of Science. Awesome

Electromagnetism is so beautiful

2:27 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣😭🤣🤣🤣🤣 tarrrrrrr...........

The GRAETZ Bridge

While the shocks are shown for a bit of comedy, they are quite informative in that they're obviously a result of what not to do.

Full bridge rectifier

I learned what is a full bridge rectifier when i was 8 (i am 22 today), but i come here everyday just to listen him saying "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER".

"Bare hands"


"BeYAAAAA"

Wow, this single diode looks quite complex.
Well at least the voltage drop for rectification is just around 0.7 Volts

You know better than my ADE teacher LOL..!!!

شكرا 💙thanks

I love it

Place an blade resistance in 120 v ac input ( 5 Ohm 10 w ) For protection oF bridge rectifier .

Is this man still alive?

Can you please do a Common Emitter Amplifier? Thanks for the great Video from Germany!

Im a electrical engineering student and i does study this.

What did he say the point of the inductor was? I couldn't understand it.

If mehdi got shocked to dead and his ghost be like with the quick calculation you can see that the power was to much to handle.

Merch shirt: FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

0:02 Full bridge rectifier remix starts

Be careful, jumpscare at 1:39

The added inductor helps with ripple filtering, its for filter like a capacitor

 @Headbutter-Lettuce90  thanks

We call these things a "diode bridge" in my language.when I heard full bridge rectifier I was wondering what it is.thought it was something fancy and advanced,turns out it's just 4 diodes plus a fuse and a capacitor:))

1:35..
Mehdi :-As you can clearly see, I don't have any measure for safety....
We:- Always has been

i think it's called a full WAVE bridge rectifier. That's what we always called them way back in the day.

Everytime this dude says "now, I'm going to" I feel like I'm watching someone just cranking away on the handle of a Jack in the box.

Full bridge rectal fire

please don't shut your channel down in any case..... even if i die due to laughing please i beg you 🙏🙏🙏🙏😂😂😂😂

It's not a full bridge rectifier, it's a FOOOOOL BREEEEEJ RECTIFAYAAA

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER
 it's a RECTIFIER, but FULL BRIDGE!

You can't use any diodes to make a rectifier because the diode has a specific voltage and amperage rating. If voltage or amperage exceeds its maximum value, the diode will die shortly and conduct in two directions. So don't forget to look at its data sheet.

for some reason i always thought u said fool Bridge Rectifier

Be aware that under some conditions, electricity can indeed "jump at you" and kill you by means of an arc-flash incident.

As long as I see him, I find the last Frankenstein 😂

Hey Medi do you think you should insulate the ground probe?
"Nah it's fine." POP "SH**!"

People like you are God's gift to the earth. Sharing information at no cost, and sharing humor just for the sake of it. May you and your loved ones be blessed.

wtf we are safe, then 10 seconds later boom AHAHAHAHA your the best

3:49 
Doesn't that have some inductance??!

pov : you trying to finish you  assignment at 3 am

Burly 🤣
Berley gold

Not sure if @ElectroBOOM is going to see this, but, as long as the topic is rectifiers, I think it would just fit if there was a video about rectifying through a flame instead of a diode. This is a common way to prove a pilot light on a furnace that uses an ignition control module.

Rectumfryer. Yes indeed..

His eyebrows are a FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER.

youtube algorithm brings me back to this video.

I made one of these and my brother touched it and started dancing funny

We had to build a pi bridge in my electronics lab for the capacitor stage.  I wanted to also add a zener diode for voltage regulation, but the prof decided we wouldn't have time. (he had about 30 students and only 1 TA)
Would have been cool though.

Whenever I want to hear medhi say "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER" 
I come here..

Why are those and the inverters espectially so damn expensive?

The correct term is "Full-Wave Bridge Rectifier" - Full - Wave refers to the fact that both the positive and negative half-wave components of a sinusoidal waveform are rectified and thus converted to DC.

Full Bridge Rectifier

bro plz explain in more detail about the coil and circuit

this is the day a superhero was born.. THE RECTIFIER!!!!

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

I always wondered how my electronics got got DC power from an AC socket.

this is electroboom when he gets shocked





FOOL BRIDGE RECTIFIA

Instructions unclear, made a half bridge rectifier.

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

BEAR! LOL

hahaha,, what an amazing show, now i can learn and laugh at the same time

Actually with bear hands you would bearly feel the current.

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

Fooooooooooooooooooooool bridge rectifier

Im here just for explosions.

عالیه حرف زدنت :))))

He bearley survived this video. Bear with me, I've got another bearner: I actually don't have another bad pun, just kill me already.

Wondering what your facination is about the FBR

Thanks, Now I begin to understand what A FUUULL BRIIIDGE RECTIFIERRRR does. :)

wow, Your good anything you can't do Superman 😊🎉

So basically, fullwave uncontrolled rectifier?

I finally found the man with zero haters...😅🤩

NICE! Can u post a link for detailed schematics on this build?

agha khili bahali !
mordam az khande '😂
damet garm

🐻 Bear hands lol

Mötley Crüe: touches a live wire

Mötley Crüe again: CAUSE I’M A LIVE WIRE

(removes ground wire protection by insulating it)
"WE ARE SAFE NOW"

3:15 *hand pops*

I can smell burning thrpugh this video

Hey ElectroBoom! I love the video and also your CRO. If it gets old or you bought a new one, please offer me the old one🙏. I'll be grateful!!

Now imagine touching 325V DC from 230 V ac rectifying

Is there an easy circuit to take 24 down to 12 V

Foooooooooooooooool bridgeéee rectifiiiierrrr

FULL.  BRIDGE.  RECTIFIER.

Isn’t that a 12v car fuse

The insane people doing insane science genre is one of the best on youtube, nilered, styropyro, electroboom, colinfurze, and so many more, you name it

I don't understand anything what he says, but still spontaneously hit the like button.

You got  like 3 lives left bro lol

How electricians sneeze: 3:15

I feel so bearly today uuaaghuhagh

It this the same thing as the diode bridge in a alternator for a car engine

Rips ground wire
We are safe
Than question, will you die if touch high (100-200v) voltage phase?

"BUR!" -Medhi 2015

This guy is hilarious

Imagine someone trying to make this thing as he is explaining it and does everything he does🤣

does anyone know y this man still alive ?

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFAIAH

You speak differently in these older ones

i feel like its one of his videos with the least amount of swear words

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

3:13

To discharge capacitors is even possible with inducktors

You are a nut! A humorous nut but a nut none the less.  Funny video, interesting too!

Most recently MrGreen (formerly nilegreen, who made nilered and mark rober voice deepfakes) has kickstarted his own insane science projects on his channel, can’t wait for more

Jeeezus. We just assume you prepare for al these accidents..or do you?

FULLLLLL BRIDGEEEEEE RECTIFIERRRRR

Lovely

Hi! I'm an electrical engineering student and want to know and watch how to make a DC power supply :=) Big fan here!

Isn't it funny how you can convert an AC voltage wave to DC using a diode and capacitor in series AKA a "DC" circuit

Full Bridge！Full Bridge！Full Bridge！

🔥🔥🔥

Hi Mehdi, could you please make a video explaining LC filter and how L and C affect voltage?

I had a rectumfire once. Never ate Mexican food again.
"As you can see, I have no regard for safety".....LMFAO

Where are the diodes in your circut i didn't see them.

0:01 FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER

Full bridge uni-brow

FFFFFUUUUUUULLLLLLLLL BRRIDGE RECTIFIERRRRR!!!!!!!!

3:15 EEEPSIH

In a cheerful way, you demonstrate why we should use safety precautions while tinkering with electricity 😂 i still didn't get why the probe neutral shorted to earth though

1:52 and 2:07 Those are actually a good questions 😂

I don't know why whenever he shouts amd jumps due to shock i laugh... which i shouldn't be.

I cannot BEAR to see Mehdi’s videos be deleted for not being safe.  Their BEAR-ly 
that dangerous, but I could not BEAR to know some one got hurt not BEAR-ing in mind Mehdi’s safety rules!

DIY Rectal Fryer

I feel like at some point he's just gonna die by sticking his fingers into some high voltage electronics

das ze fooool bridg rectifiAh

what about the full bridge rectal fire

The Holy Grail

You could have put the resistor in water to cool down much faster.

What about a Half Bridge Rectifier

Perfect tutorial. You already know what happen if u made mistakes. Hahaaha

"I insulated the ground pin, so we have floating/no ground" flips switch on "We are safe now"

oh dear

HANS GET ZE GLEICHRICHTERBRÜCKE

Sir please make a bug bust covatar

He just said "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER"

Mehdi pls make a compilation of all your "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER" sayings😂

Automotive fuses are only rated for 32V!

آره ، خیلی حرفه 😊

I understand now.

Rofl i love you man

Can some1 tell my why my rectifier I built outputs 196V DC with 230V AC on input?
His rises by like 50v and mine drops by 30

Could you cover something with a high efficiency AC to DC power supply?  I know it's a bit more complicated,  but you've done a few that have been.

Random comment:
I've mistaken the title for PACIFIER instead of rectifier
and said to myself:
How can a baby put this in it's mouth?

nice full bridge rectifier but why short circuit in ground

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER vs Synchronous Rectifier??

The circuit has a ground connection, it was that the insulated ground wire was there to ensure that the circuit didn't short through his scope.

مهدی 😃😅😂🤣👍👍 Nice presentation. Next time how about a 4 MOSFET ( 2 N-type and 2 P-type) bridge rectifier?

Always remember to add a discharge resistor across the capacitors so it doesn't become a time bomb waiting for you to short it accidentally. I use around 500 kOhm or higher so the wasted power is low.

Sir Please also make Some videos on Inverters😂😂😂😂

FOOOOOOOLLLLL BRIIIIDGGEE RECCCTIFIAHHHH

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER :D

this is a very educational video for safety...it shows you exactly what will happen if you don't follow safety protocol in the work environment...I mean you have to wear gloves...and goggles and all that while you work...if you wonder WHY? this video will show you exactly why. HAHAHA but really Im just here for the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!

This man make me love what i hate (physics) 😊

Hi, could you make video about three-phase full wave diode rectifier? It will be so nice.
Thanks

00:08 me in the hospital kekw

Watching from 10th grade, now joined electronics engineering😂

Base lyrics of the song full bridge rectifier

0:01

I saw the first video from 2020 and now go backwards and im pretty sure now that, at least one of, his true reasons why becoming an electrical engineer is because he now has an professinal reason to say FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER !!!!!!!!!  :)

Now how to smooth the dc so it can be straight up and not come down?

Thank you very much for this very detailed documentation of af Full Bitch Rectal Fryer!

So this is how it all started…

So youre into beatboxing

That's cool and all but pls make it 240v 15A input, pls

1 Mehdi = 10*10^6 Fuuuul Bridge Rectifier...

1:15 are those capacitor looking things diodes?

Love

3:15 it changes by alot

I'm going to get two 120 to 220  Transformers and connect them in series and I'm going to run it through a 600v 15 amp bridge rectifier with a microwave capacitor as a ballast capacitor on the transformer a protective capacitor on the input of the bridge rectifier and a smoothing/protective capacitor for the output of the bridge rectifier and maybe a inductive choke on the output. And I will get approximately 500 volts 19 amps and I will make some nice arcs

This fuse is automotive fuse :-D. Max rating voltage is 32V.

EEVBlog: teaches how not to blow up your scope
ElectroBOOM: doesn't give a flying fuck, does it anyway!

Nice

Bear hands

Bear hands

He teaches diodes, rectifiers, filters, scope usage, resistor power dissipation, and capacitor safety in 4 minutes and no fkn VPN ad... how wonderful youtube used to be 🥲

Mehdi first word:hi

When FUUULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER was born

There is already a full bridge rectifier connected in that circuit. That black rectangular thingie. Why so?

2:27

I was about to order a $150 isolation transformer for my scope… when electroboom: 
“I am using this piece of tape to cover the ground prong…”

maybe if the ac voltage is rectified to dc voltage it will multiply by 1.5, for example 220v ac becomes 330v dc

LOL
And now I've finally seen the source of the joke.
Of course, it had to be you. :D

WOOOOOOOOOOOO

Orang ini selalu kesetrum😃😃

which earth ground did you isolate with the tape? The oscilloscope or the power bar?

When I commented an enough long time ago, which i finally delete them, I forgot to consider capacitor as a voltage raiser output, because it collect electric current and raise it. So probably it is right 120 VAC become about 170 VDC.

1:43 bro c'mon I made a spark at the outlet and it almost shocked me (keyword almost) well it's a bit rare to jump at ya

Where can I get these high voltage/ current experimental boards? With larger holes?

those "earths" can have electric current? i always break those off when it doesnt fit in the wall outlet

Only 2 explosions I think that's a record

All right, but what is the role of the coil?

I have the capacitor. I think I should get other stuff and make one

داداش کارت حرف نداره

I feel like he hurts himself on purpose lol

Why did the fuse blow at 3:15 but not when he was holding it with pliers? Did it happen when he dropped it, like it shorted something?

Happy that I watched the fuuuuoool video

FULL BRIDGE RECKTIFAYAAH

ITS  A FULL BRIDGE

Please make a video for 12v to 30-0-30 v dc to dc converter

Aren't ATC blade fuses only rated to like 32VDC?

Can you explain what is an SCR switch and why it is used...? Please

He intentionally hurts himself and shows the dangers of electronics, step by step. He acts as if he doesn't even know, proving how smart he really is.

After seeing this video for the 6th time, i can say that i am  a Full Fridge Rectifier!!

Pewdiepie- ZERO DEATHS! 
DAVIE 504- SLAP LIKE! 
Mehdi -FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!

where can I buy the components needed to make this circuit?

I came here after seeing the Mother of all Fullest Bridge Rectifier

I just bought a breadboard kit and a bunch of caps and resistors and transistors and some other stuff. Time to not go boom! 👍🤣

So, we now know how to convert AC to DC, using a FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER! But what about DC to AC?

What's the difference between Full Wave and Full Bridge Rectifier?

You are my YouTube Teacher Sir....!
I really like your Knowledge and I am learning from your a lots of at my home. I really want to say you "Thanks" for this great Knowledge. Because I am a Physical Disabled Person. But I never feel any disability and I completed my education with Master in International Relations and also double Graduation in Bachelor of Education + Bachelor in Commerce. I do Electronics, Electrical and Technical work to convert "Scrap" into a useful things.
I will show you myself on My YouTube Channel Soon...

Why would you but tape over the ground prong, instead of just not connecting the ground clamp?

Full eyebrow connectifier

😂😂😂😂anh bạn này chuyên gia làm tôi hết hồn 😂điện giật

Hope you'll be my prof.

Fock that’s some hairy fingers

Why do you always have to get electric shocks or explosions? I handle mains as dangerously as you do sometimes and i never get anything BECAUSE I AM CAREFUL!

foooooool breeeeegddddd RAKTIFIYAAAAAAA

A FOOL BREACH RECTIFIER

FULL BEAR RECTIFIER

Whenever I get done playing my PlayStation after a couple hours, I quote this video! I go, “I let it cool down for a while AND SHIT!”

3:39 "Let it cool down for a while and sh*t" 😂

Can this circuit used for DC stick or TIG  welding

perfect troll $)) u r very entertaining))))+++ very smart troll

how many times a day, do you nearly get killed ?

What to do if my rectifier trips my 16a fuse?

I have a question is there somewhere I can source a full bridge rectifier for 110 volt that will handle 20 amps?

Dostum kondansatör lü devrelerde deşarj 
direnci bulunması gerekiyor...

Using an inverter

Hahahahaha lol

How to choose capacity values

شكرا لكم

Funny shit.

How does this get an output voltage higher than the input without a transformer?

Boom

YES SIR!!!!!!

The classic

Lmao.

Is there a way to step it down to 12vdv at 8.3 amps?

Could you please give me the exact circuit diagram of a full bridge rectifier circuit which you have done. I loved your concepts and enjoying the waay of explanation.
Tnq from Urla Teja Swi Tarun EEE.

Cool...

Fuuuuuuuuuul bridge rectifier

A fool bridge rectifier.

FULL BRIDGE RECTUM FRIER

I dont really set my volume to louder when watching his videos.

hi Mehdi   can you tell  a cheap oscilloscope please

Aren't these called power inverters?

3:55 That why those wireless Cordless Anti-static Bracelet were made.

How can i use car bass tube in ac current at home?

Is this guy still alive today?

That is not static electricity. That is  touching 340VDC.

FULLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL!!!!!!!

please make for center tapped transormer

The Channel is entertainment and informative. Could you possibly make content about a isolation transformer, maybe a DIY?

kheili mikhandam :)) bear :)), dametoon garm  :)

When I went through Electronics training in the U.S. Navy, some 45 years ago, we learned about the Full "Wave" Bridge Rectifier circuit. Same exact circuit as you describe in this video. Why the name change? Signed, a fan ....

OK I have created a full bridge rectifier using IN4007 ,my ques is can i use 110v as input

Im a licensed Electronics Engineer but I still dont get these things fully.

0:02

Safety? What is that? What do you mean?

bear

2:27 is so funny

Peter: bear

summarizing this video:
ground is unsafe
capacitors store charge
more resistance is more heat

I think u have natural insulator for electric shock

Hi bro can you send me the equivalent circuit of This project

Be careful about your house when you play fire.

3:13

3:29 huh yeah that looks like about 300W to me

1:54 His hands are pretty damn hairy.

Do an inverter

Just take two spools of wire with the same gauge and interlink the windings. This setup is also known as a 1:1 transformer.

I think full wave means, it rectifies the full wave instead of half wave and overtime people just dropped the word 'wave'.

 @asadzaidi6188  I agree. I am sure that is what happened. But Full Wave Bridge has a much meatier, poetic sound to it ... don't you think?

Can I use 4.7m farad capacitor in the rectifier?

I dont understsnf his videos. I think hes funny snd cool

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIYA

not a real electroboom video if he isn't hurt during it

why is the ground shorted with the oscilloscope?

3:41 And sh**! 😂

I be like NO SWEARING?? (Until 1:49)

Something Ive been curios about for some time, whats the maximum voltage u can use car/blade fuses for? They are rated for i think max 30v (printed on some), but fuse is fuse(?) so where is the difference between a tiny glas tuby fuse and a blade fuse from cars?

I know this is a very old video, but I noticed that the single diode graphic you used has the electron flow going backwards!!! oops

1:39 made me move away from my screen slightly

mehdi what capacitor to use(it is a bit late to say this)

For some reason I feel "bearly" today.

He's funny, but slightly hard to watch when you are an electrician. Brains just screams "OMG, dont' do this, omg why you still doing this" :D

So basically, this is a switching power supply that easily pops when voltages get too great? As in what happens in developing countries when the power fluctuates? We’ve had power supplies pop plenty of times in this scenario. Just curious if this is what breaks...?

How much capacitance and inductance is needed and how would I know? I found a 300V 400mF capacitor from a film camera and feel like this is an overkill.

great video, i've a question sir,
In a smps circuit, if i increase (double, triple) the capacity of reservoir capacitors at same voltage, do i stress the rectifier and burn it in long term usage? I'm doing this with my all subwoofer amplifiers and nothing happened yet, but should i reduce the capacity, i dont know.thanks.

I hate dis guy 😠 always scared me while watching but I love it watching again 😂 😂

You are crazy... 😂

Aaaaoooo!!!...aaaaooooo!!!

What does the dc crossover used and do  anyway......

The birth of "The Rectifier!" and "FOOOOOL BRIIDJ RECTIFIAAAHH!!!!!" slogans.

soooo in another word clamper and rectifier are same things?

as you can clearly see i have no regard for safety.. dont be like that 😂

FBR rules!

1:32
Oh my god, it didn't explode.

learned at univ many things but they dont teach us as you do ....

Touches 170 V DC - nothing happens
Touches already charged capacitor of 170 V  DC  -OUUUCCHH




how?plz explain

make some 18650 smart charger

April full

Will you make a video on 555 timer c

Hello, thanks for the video, what happen with the voltage if you put some load? will increase or decrease? im doing this circuit for a motorcycle to run an HID kit instead of an halogen bulb. Im using only a full bridge rectifier from  a 10,4V AC getting almost 25V DC with load.

I have a 12v1a charger. I want to charge 19v3.42a through a boost module to charge my laptop. I do n’t know if I can do that.

3:15 hahahaha

hi can u make 240v dc power supply??because i once see a 240v dc motor from handheld blender and kinda curious how they make a circuit to running it so high voltage but in dc..

* F U L L B R I D G E R E C T F I E R*

wear safery glove hahaha

your funny AF man :))  love ya videos + youll live forever all those shocks 
and extra electricity running through your body cheers
73

While touching the DC output of 170 volts when the circuit is connected to mains voltage you didn't get an electric shock. But when you touched the same DC output when the circuit is not connected to mains voltage then you got an nasty electric shock...why is this so ?

Please explain this

Too funny:)

T H E  R E C T I F I E R

The voltage drops when loaded so the rectifier was likely connected to something. He got an electric shock while it was unplugged because the capacitor still holds the 170 volts DC as long as it is not connected to any load.

2:26 And now I will turn the power bar on! BANG SHI%#}>!

3:15 BANG SH%*{%%!

3:40 I let it cool down for a while AND SH}#%*!!!

3:55 YAAAOOWW!!!

Mesa Dual Rectifier

The rectifaiaa...rrr

Who uses resistors to discharge capacitors... Here in texas we use screw drivers

bear!

I would have a question:
 - I built several „drivers“ (H-Bridge) for stepper motors.  The motors consume about 2A per phase.
 I am using Power Mosfets: IRFZ44N, IRF9510, IRF4905, IRF740.
 My question would be:
 - Do you need protection diode power Mosfets?  Looking at the photo of the Mosfet (on the datasheet), the Mosfet has the built-in protection diode.  But I'm not sure that is the case.  Or if you want to say that ...

 If anyone knows, I would be very grateful ...
 thanks and greetings to all ✋

You use the terms "ground" and "earth" are they interchangeable or different?

So how did the capacitor shock you, if you just demostrated 170VDC doesn't ?
Oh yeah, free power, my bad ;-)

He knows that unless u make a mistake u cant learn so he is trying to teach us from mistakes risking himself...😆

why you have not fear of death ?

ElectroBoom: ">tgm"

#respect...

#Electroboom can u design a 30w charger

3:37  

...Thats what she said

doese't get shock when it running 1:59 but gets shock when it is disconnected 3:52

1:19 nope 40w
fast charge baby.

Wow I learned nothing, that was great.

Linus told me to go here. Hi Medhi :)

full bridge rectum frier
lul

What is the coil for?

Is it possible to get 110 v with this same setup? And what compunent should I add?

Hi,  what is the diode model used for 10 Amps rectification .  thank you

Are you connecting the 4 capacitor in series or in parallel?

so its a minecraft repeater :)

I can imagine how many times this guy stung by electricity and how it affects his personality.

you should make a shirt out of this

Ulan nerdeyse adam ceryani carpacak

You didn't get shock when you connected it to live wires but you got  shocked after disconnected, how?

Did you say rectal? I'm in

Rectalfire

You do have bear hands. You should trim the hair around your wedding ring before it grows around it like kudzu.
That wasn't my only takeaway, sir.

You crack me up 🤣🤣🤣 keep it up. I do have a question. I am trying to convert 24v ac to 24v DC for a 42 watt motor. I got my transformer. What diode do I need? I have diodes but I think it's rated for 1w so they burn out. Would a diode that's rated higher the 42w work for this? And do I need a capacitor? If yes what size capacitor do I need? I did it at first with the diodes that I have and they kept burning out till I realized it says 1w.  Thank you

Like só pelo fantoche

stop bullying the single diode rectifier

Who all came here to see big booms already knowing full bridge rectifier..??

I let it cool down for a while..
touches it and burns hand

Mehdi gets very excited by saying "FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER". But why?

F U L L B R I D G E R E C T I F I E R

Chalentino

F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F I E R

When connected, current has an easy path to ground and would rather go through the circuit than his body. When disconnected, the capacitors remain charged but have no path to ground. By touching the circuit in this state, he gave those charged capacitors a path to ground and got shocked. He was not shocked before because there was already an even better path to ground than his body provided, but once disconnected the next best path would be through his hand.

bare and bear are...two... different.... words.....

3:15
3:15
3:15
3:15
Spam there so he suffer more pain:)

where is the diagram?

Sir can this rectifier convert dc to ac

Hi Mehdi Jon
I am trying to locate the inductor 35mh yet to no avail, could you/anyone give me a hint as to what/where to get the said inductor? Regards Cid

I like these videos but I still don’t understand electrical.

How are you not getting ripples? I made a full wave rectifier in my lab and got some ripples like some small sanddunes in series. Not that straight line 🙄

Today, I made one that generated 170 volts dc. To me, the shock was akin to being tased by those novelty gag toys; becoming unbearable after a few seconds had elapsed.

Why? We're in a switching power supply world now buddy.. nice vid though

Bare doesn’t equal bear 🐻

are you using a 30 MH or 30uh inductor??? please answer i want to make it!

Hey, how do i measure 230V ac from the powerline with an oscilloscope? (With no 1:1 transformers or differential probes or whatever) I've never tested 230V on my osci, an because i'm only 17 and dont have the money to buy a new 4 channel oscilloscope, i wont destroy anything

I could use a full bridge rectifier capable of 1200-1500 watts
Can I just buy one? Would a halogen lamp plugged into the rectifier work normally?

F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F Y E R

I don't think you can touch 170v even if its dc

F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F I E R

F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F I E R

Give the quick calculation I need 220-230v and 15 amps of current what capacitor should I use?

Full bridge rectifier does reverse polarity correction, not reverse polarity protection.

then how can i make DC to AC

WoW

It can do both I think, the transformer doesn't care about polarity and neither do the diodes on that side of the circuit, so it would operate normally just with an inverted waveform.

Simple. Reverse the wires

​ @360blackopsnoscope  🤯

F U L L   B R I D G E   R E C T I F I E R

Hi, I have a massive Transformer of 44VAC at secondary and 50A of Current Capacity. I want to use it to make the Bench Power Supply. Can I make 24V 50A bench power supply from it?

Nice shirt 😇

Bear hands😂 baa

170 Volts and 100Ω generates 289 Watts not 300.

1:40 hey, that was not cool :(

Haha rect

SWITCH TO HELL 2:25

Bear with me, their language is wild

Make a 3 phase rectifier.....

Bear...

What is ripple filtering?

see kids, he teaches by examples of what not to do.

3:15

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER >>> Mesa Triple Rectifier

hice un FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIRE  y le puse un condensador en el output, pero cuando mido el ouput con el multimetro me entrega 5 voltios de directa si lo mido con corriente directa lo cual es lo que deberia d eocurrir peor despues pongo el multimetro en alternay me da 10 voltios de alterna que está pasando electroboom???  TwT😢

He kool✌.

Better to say" naked" instead of bare

1/3 of this video is him making fun of English lol

Sir in capacitor DC blocks sir how it allows sir  full of confusion sir

I have a pretty thick "worker's skin" on my fingers, but I can DEFINITELY feel 160Volts DC. For me, DC starts to feel quite unpleasant at about 80VDC.

3:14
3:31 Cool!

3:40 I let it cool for a while AND SH**

Please don't burn yourself.

3:41 AND SHIT!!!

In polish barley means ledwo

3:15 e

1:40 jump at you

haha electroBOOM go burrr

3:13

MOFBR!!!!!

F U L L   B R I D G E   R E C T I F I E R

i need sone enlightenment. 

i completely get the full wave rectifier design but the only thing im questioning my whole existence on was that top diode from the 2nd pair that gets power from the circuit and goes back to the positive line.

 what does that do?

Not sure how you got "bearly" out of word barely. 2:00

youre building whole full bridge rectifiers with quad capacitors and i cant even make a single bridge rectifier that can handle 1a😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭

Sir can you put the subtitle from Indonesian please

2:28 epilepsy warning

🤗

2:06 "DC is much less dangerous than AC". Topsy would disagree on that.

Bechara thora adh-kapaari hai !

Engineer's sneeze

Person who never fails in electric science: how do I fail?


Person: there is someone called electroboom

And thus, this channels joke of the “FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUULLLLLLLLLLL BBBBBBBBBBBBRRRRRRRRRRRRRRIIIIIIIIIIIIDDDDDDDDGGGGGGGEEEEEE REECTTIIIFIERRRRRR”
Began

Idk if telling people 160v dc can be fucked around with is the best ieea XD

any chance to an alternative dc to ac in the future?     something without diodes?    seems like the only thing we have is diodes....anyth else?  any experiment possible? i dont know ...has anyone tried cow poop or dog or cat poop.....or anything else out there on the planet?                     no other method then diodes?

داداش کارت درسته 
ابروهات خیلی دلبره 
(تعریف)😆

Make a video of how to make a transformer plzz

Hello any one pls clarify I have rectifier kbpc3510, 
it's no load dc voltage is equal to supply voltage vac, 
Then connected a 34.51.7.060.0010 110vdc relay now also dc rectified voltage equal to supply voltage vac
And I connected a Schneider's mfm 6400 then apply supply voltage 110vac but output rectified voltage was 153 nearly equal root two times of vac 


What's the reason?  Why rectifier o/p  voltage was varies with load

Is it always rectified dc voltage is always root two times of supply voltage v peak?

Hilarious!😁😄😅😂

I always wonder if you invented the term full bridge rectifier. Or maybe it's a translation thing, because in Spanish (translated literally to English) it's "full wave rectifier" or "rectificador de onda completa"

Does this guy respawn from SavePoints?😂

Who will explain the Circuit ??? !!!

U R Still  Alive

One thing i didn't get: he didn't get shocked when touched the output while the circuit was pluged (2:00) but he got shocked touching the circuit unplugged because the capacitor was charged (3:54)...

Hey mehedi sir you done mistake, at first time you touch DC output with bare hand and at the end of video you got hurt how ? I caught your joke !

Burnd 😂😂😂😂

2:27

I just came to study, Not to explore some respawn video.

Question: does anybody know a way to get to an amateur level of electrical engineering where you are capable of making simple circuits. I myself dont have well enough grades for math to study it but I'd like to be able to make some simple circuits for the stuff I make.

3:39

BEAR!

Well, not all full wave rectifiers are bridge rectifiers. For example, a center tapped rectifier gives full wave rectification but is not a bridge rectifier. "Full wave bridge rectifier" is a lot to say so that's probably why it gets shortened.

My possible answers is that
he is doing it on purpose to remind of safety, like he does with some staged explosions

Me watching these videos while not having a single darn clue what he's talking about 

👁👄👁

3:14

Bare hands not bear hands

2:28

Hi...IV got questions. 120 V is max or effective voltage? If it's a effective voltage, how come rectified voltage is higher than that? Doesn't it make that the power of the output is higher than the input? That shouldn't be possible, right? Right?

Why you were not suffering any pain/ shock at 166V DC , what I thought was AC is more dangerous than DC because AC gives us shock of 110*√2 or220*√2(depending on your loc.) While for same RMS, DC voltage it will be fixed 110 or 220. But you were not shocked by 166V !! How??

يريت لو تشرح بلعربي او ترجمه

0:02

Can you make a variable output voltage full bridge rectifier? And how would one slow down an AC grinders speed?

2:27

So I have a transformer with 2 individual 25-0-25/25-0-25 power output (AC). I made 2 individual full bridge rectifiers (4+4=8 diods) with center taps and total 4 big capacitors and I put them in series to make +/-71 VDC(142dc) and used the 2 bridges connection point as Ground(0) and I added 2 bigger capacitors on my final output stage (+/- +/-) and used it in😢 my audio system and it runs pretty good so far. But I could put my transformer ac wires (secondary) in series and use only full bridge rectifiers with 4 diods and 2 capacitors which is the way I might had to do but I did it differently. Could you explain what could possibly go wrong with my setup or pros and cons please. You are the best person who could explain this one. I have searched on the Internet and couldn't find any answers or some people think it was unnecessary and not balanced and wasted parts for bad design .

If I had a scope. I would wire in a switch connected to the ground wire so I can disconnect the ground at any time.

Can you please make a transformer I don’t wanna blow up my power supply

2:25

The Origin.

He says full bridge rectifier contains 4 diodes and he uses only 1 diode.
Please explain. Thanks

Next question is how can we step down the output dc voltage to something closer to 14vdc?

3:15 hahahahahahahaha

0:01

FULL ""

The human body has parasitic capacitance that lets AC through much easier.

Yes, you can use a potentiometer to divide voltage down to what you want. You could also use a DC-DC converter to step the voltage up, but that's inefficient and is mostly just for digital electronics that only need a small amount of current anyway.

Or use an isolation transformer.

The big diode before the inductor and capacitors has 4 diodes

Try a variable resistor and tune until you get your desired voltage. Or if you want, you can do math and pick a fixed resistor. Otherwise, before passing it through a full bridge rectifier, you can step down the voltage using a step down transformer.

Not Making a Half Bridge Unrectifier

4k eisizza

You can't test it with bare hands in India 😂😂😂😂

Erectsfire

Voll Brücken Rektifizierer

How do I make a F U L L  B R I D G E  R E C T I F I E R to output 110v dc, 30a with good filtering? Trying to power a 50hz microwave with an inverter. I have access to both 110 (120) and 220 (240)v.

in ussr

Full brige rectifier convert dc to ac

2:28 PE-
3:15 PEH!

my diode emits light 
and a diode on youtibe went wild
 ( #diodiegonewild )

🐻👌

Hmmm, I seem to recall each and every class in basic electricity and safety advising that DC was more dangerous than AC, at least at more significant voltages and/or currents. Sure, DC is safe enough in most electronics, but the general statement about 'DC being safer' could give people the wrong impression.

0:02

Its your language now ,-!-,

Anyone else watching this in 2021

Burn in my language is   زخم

2:27.5

Hi! Can i ask you, to make a video about differеnce between AC, DC and Pulse TIG welding. I'm a TIG Welder and i have a DC TIG welding Machine. But i want to remake it for AC welding process. Its tip for welding aluminium! If you interested, i will give you more info!
*TIG/WIG= Wolfram (Argon) welding

😂😂😂😂🤙🏻🤙🏻

burak kanbur knki öbürlerinide çevir allah için :DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD

I used this for 220 volts it burnt my plastic

That would be an inverter

​@coastersaga yes

Can you please elaborate on the importance of inductor in this power supply

2:00 Wait, is he saying that you can put your finger across 166V and it's perfectly safe as long as it's DC and not AC?

Hello, seriously: can you please explain (do to you are really good teacher), how works an Inverter from DC to AC? I know works in reverse mode than full bridge rectifier, but which is the “core” circuit of an inverter?

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=Di6rWvwy02I&pp=ygUQZWxlY3Ryb2Jvb20gc29uZw%3D%3D

DOnt lie u make it so u can call REctifier allot

1:40 you scared me dude.. 
come on, do it more

Pains
2:28
3:15
3:41
3:55

"SH** **** **************************"

- ElectroBOOM

Can the DC coming from the main rectifier bridge be further improved by having the DC signal pass through a second full wave rectifier?

Bare. Not Bear

Is that all it takes to than to make a dc power supply assuming you have a dc voltage regulator to handle the power output of the rectifier?

I let it cool down and shit 3:40

Mehedi Bhai, I am not really sure if your insurance agrees to cover you;
People find this funny, I find this scary, my humble reminder: fatal things always happen in less than a second time.... :-(

Would you be interested in making a step-by-step guide? I would love to make one of these, but I don't know enough about rectifiers and the parts required to build one.

Bare and Bear are not the same thing 
#LingusticBOOM  lol

F. U. L. L. B. R. I  D. G. E. R. E. C. T. I. F. I. E. R

Hello moto, , the mf ad

👨🔌⚡💥🔥 1:23, 2:20, 3:07, 3:28 & 3:39

Get RECTified

Hmmm. Touching the output while connected to life voltage didn't hurt you while touching the charged capacitor while being unplugged does???

Without the inductor, the output would have a "ripple", which isn't good because we want a constant DC voltage. This ripple comes from the capacitor trying to hold the voltage at a constant value when the rectified wave goes to ground. The capacitor will discharge and keep the output high rather than letting it dip back down with the full wave rectified output. However, this still results in a slight amount of ripple from the capacitor charging and discharging. One option is to use a voltage regulator, which uses a Zener diode to regulate a rippling voltage to a constant value. Another is to use an inductor, which charges a magnetic field as the current flowing through it increases or decreases. Because the ripple is creating a voltage that oscillates and the load is assumed to be relatively constant, the current will also oscillate. This changing current charges the inductor, which causes the inductor to generate a "back EMF." This back EMF, or back electromotive force, is just a voltage that opposes the change in current. Essentially, the inductor wants to keep the current constant and does so by creating a voltage to resist the change. So the inductor is creating a voltage proportional to the voltage change in the ripple. If the ripple is at its peak, current increases through the inductor and it will have an opposite EMF to try to reduce the current. Conversely, the minimum ripple voltage will lower the current and causes the inductor to generate a forward EMF to increase the voltage back to a stable value so the current remains constant.

Short answer: the inductor is resisting the change in current caused by the rippling output voltage of the capacitor by generating its own opposing voltage. That voltage comes from the magnetic field the inductor builds when current flows through it. Specifically, it's the CHANGING magnetic field from the changing current that causes the voltage (back EMF).

 @thegreatzoom5073  too good . Thanks dude

It depends on how you're defining your AC voltage. 166Vrms means the AC waveform has an "average" voltage of 166V and effectively delivers that voltage over time. However, AC oscillates so the instantaneous voltage, or the voltage at one point in time, will change. 166Vrms means the voltage has peaks of 166*sqrt(2) volts, or about +-235V. If the AC wave was running at 60Hz, that means it will hit +-235V 120 times in one second. So you can see how it's really easy to touch that and get shocked by any one of those 235V peaks.

transistors, tyristors, MOSFETs basically, IGBT you can also look at thats a pretty common used.

In fact a basic circuit for a inverter (which is the "core" of the circuit) is easy to understand if you have only a bit electronics knowledge, but they produce a rectangle voltage, sinus inverters use typically oscillators and amplifiers and are less efficient as well bigger and much more complex and probably already too hard to explain.

When it comes to the more or less MOST USED and NEEDED function at inverters... grid tie.... so sensing the grid frequency and adapt to it for grid feeding is getting VERY COMPLEX and i guess much too hard to explain.

Try adding more capacitors to further uphold the voltage. I highly doubt diodes would do anything to make the DC waveform more flat since the current never flows back after there is already a diode there.

You can either use a regulator, or you can use a step-down transformer.

If you have no idea how to build it, and what to use it for, then don't.

 @tearex7023  Challenge accepted. I don't and I will build it.

Touching the capacitor provided it with a low-resistance path for electrons to leave through his skin, while the capacitive effect that the body has when you touch high-voltage DC allows the voltage to be blocked, since capacitors block DC.

Ion Sheets (ion poisoning)

Bear

i let it cool down for a while anD SHIT

"DC is much less dangerous than AC."

b e a r .

Although the capacitor was charged upto 170volts (DC) why did you get shocked by them but not by 170 v DC output of the FBR ??

بابا تو کی بودی ؟ xDDDDDDDDDDD

My wife don't like rectification...butt I keep trying

#FULLBRIDGERECTIFIER

I have a question, is it the inductor, that makes the capacitors not explode or an different component?

The output impedence of the LC filter won't be very good for switched loads like SMPS's.

1:30 Dumb question: Why does the electricity alway pop light when connected?

Watchout! 1:39 jumpscare.. 😂😂

This guy is a bit mad ^^

EL TRADUCTOR NO DEJA VER EL VIDEO BIEN 😒

don t try another experiments duck!

Does anyone know why the capacitor at the output holds the voltage close to the peak of the wave? (0:25)

Thanks in advance! 👍

Is DC safer than AC as he says? Goes against much of what I’ve been taught.

Why you use 4 capacitor instead of 1?
And why transformer is used before rectifier circuit in AC->DC Circuit?

Is a sinlge-diode rectifier half-full, or half-empty?

Yes?

He probably touched a spark, or two at once.

Capacitors only explode if you connect them in reverse or exceed their voltage rating. If you don't want it to explode, make sure you get the polarity right and make sure you pick a properly rated capacitor for your applications.

Right, but in that case you'd probably want a voltage regulating IC?

 @thegreatzoom5073  right. But the power capability of the FBR would be way overkill compared to a voltage regulator IC

Hello my old self, that "light" is called arc, it happen because the electricity breakdown the air itself to deliver power. Same like Lightnight, the air expand rapidly create sound, why the light I still question myself.

Bruh literally waited for jumpscare but there's non

 @dabezt5926  sorry😂

The graph he's showing is very ideal and leaves out some details. The actual output for this circuit would be slightly below the peak of the AC input. Without the capacitor/inductor, the voltage output of this rectifier would look like the absolute value of a sine wave. Capacitors can be seen as "resisting change in voltage," so when the rectifier output dips back towards ground, the capacitor goes from charging to discharging and keeps the output from returning all the way to ground. However, the capacitor still discharges during this stage and so you do end up with a bit of a ripple. This is then smoothed using a voltage regulator or an inductor to get a constant DC voltage.

Here's a good graph that illustrates the unfiltered, rectified wave and then the effect the capacitor has in red. It's still ideal since the peaks wouldn't match exactly, but the more significant detail omitted was ripple voltage:
https://www.physicsforums.com/attachments/2_16_0_12_eng-png.186709/

its correct but 160v dc is still not safe

The transformer steps the voltage down to something more reasonable. Without it, the rectifier would likely still work but would have a much higher voltage DC output. Since most DC electronics are pretty sensitive and prefer lower voltages, this would be a big issue, so a transformer is needed in almost every application of AC-DC rectification.

quarter full*

FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!!!🤬🤬🤬🤬

Bear

What the hell , in every video u r shorting the wires and getting Sparks , ,,,,,,,,,,

Wait, u use a 24V fuse for a 120V circuit???

🤣🤣

مشتی دوست دارم ندا گرم

Bear=karhu

🐻 hands

finally I know the secret where dumb learn electricity
😂😂😂
they don't need manuall or guide book, just do it than whole house in fire
that was best and expensive way to learn electronic
cool

Please 🥺

You are so funny. I think you are teaching others what is a dangerous test. I don't believe he doesn't know that it is a very dangerous test. You are so good, but be careful.

dude please send me scamatics on breadboard full bridge rectifier.

hi

Hi!. I want to make a FULL! BRIDGE! RECTIFIER!. 0:00 That's right it's not a dumb single director fire it's a 0:06 FULL! BRIDGE! RECTIFIER!

Electro boomer

0:51 FOOL BRIJ REKTIFIYAR

Down here we have the right to bear arms. We're entitled to go into any state office and request a pair of bear arms. It's in the constitution, look it up. Poor bears.

B E A R

what rectifier did you use in this video electric boom

FOOL Bridge Rectifier

120VAC/170VDC

دمت گرم

You should be able to find one online, it's an extremely common layout. In fact, I'd say it's possibly the most common circuit in all of electronics.

@electro boom

Edison worked hard to make the light bulb.


But an idiot guy made one with no effort.

great! so a diode will always output DC. does that mean if i connect an LED to a wall outlet i can plug in a DC motor and itll work?

he looks way younger😂🤣🔮shhhh....🙄wanna be nerd friends dude...feel free to soundboard sometime...channels open.

FOOL BREEDJE RECTIFIYAAH

He definatly has  bear hands. Furry man!

Hello, Can you please make a video of your response to the guy who  wants to make a water wheel generator and the dangers of playing with AC. Too many idiots in this world now making common sense not so common. thanks in advance.

2:27:5

my bridge rectifier is overheating... i use 15A rectifier for 12volt 10A step-down transformer.. with 16v 2200uf capacitor.... and i m drawing 6 amp using boost converter.... and rectifier is dissipating to much heat (wasting lot of power). how can i solve this ?

why dont we use this type of thing instead of AC power, seems like much nicer, only requires a dc-dc converter to make USB friendly charging and stuff, could get rid of all those power supplies which are never around when you need them

Fool brig rectifior

Hi , I'd like to ask , you say DC is safer , but I have heard otherwise. Which is safer between the two?   I've heard that once you get electrocuted by DC , it becomes very hard to let go because the current 'grabs' you , whereas , in AC because its alternating , you are able to get away from it . Please correct me if wrong

full bridge recifier....echo...lol

pin if full bridge rectifier

You can put some resistors parallel to the caps (discharge resistors) so ypu dont need to always manually short the caps.

Does the disipating resistor value matter at all? I have not run into any explanation to choosing a resistor value to disipate the current stored in the regulating capicitor when the circuit is no longer being supplied.

If you continue careless about safety you'll lose your life .
SAFETY FIRST PAL .

I don't work in anything electric related, and I'm scared of electricity. 
Why do I watch these videos?

LTT

Lol
 bare hands bear hands. Yeah English is weird.

Kinda shot

No, but there's a lot of reasons for that. The LED would probably burn out from the current and because it would likely reach its reverse breakdown voltage when the AC wave goes negative. Assuming the diode didn't break, the motor would see a changing, positive, half-wave voltage from 0 to ~170V. So it would only be getting power at half the rate it should, and I think most DC motors take much less than 170V so it would probably burn the windings out too.

 @thegreatzoom5073  Sounds like we're doing too much thinking and not enough breaking stuff

You have to atleast show a circuit diagram.

Because electricity needs to be moved across long distances, and AC does have advantages there.
And your DC-DC converter would just be another power supply. The reality is, every device in your house has a power supply, either internal or external. If you changed to a DC-DC system, your washing machine, your toaster, your fridge ...they would all still have different requirements, so they'd all need a power supply.
As for the lost power supplies: just keep them with the device they belong to, preferably together in a box. When you're finished, take the extra 3 minutes to put everything away neatly. It works.

AC is more dangerous at the same voltage. for example 120V AC is more dangerous than 120V DC.

A little late, but if the value is too low it will draw a lot of current and obviously generate heat. I don't think there's any ideal value just use a high one. MOCs (microwave oven capacitors, they're rated for over 2kv) for example, which already have built in resistors, have a 1 mega ohm resistor.

He is from Egypt 🇪🇬 he is arabic man

hi , is it possible to make a high frquency full bridge rectifier ? like 140khz , can we do it with ultra fast diodes ?

You made one big mistake when you titled your video. Instead of calling it “Making a full bridge rectifier” I should have said “Making a FUUUULLLL BRRRIIIDDGEE REEEECCTEEFIIRREEEEEE”

DC is not less dangerous than AC.  170V DC is extremely dangerous.  
The argument in favour of DC current

Victims who have experienced the electric shock with DC current says that they are unable to pull their hand back because DC current flows continuously. This effect is similar to an electric doorbell supplied with DC current. Hence, it is believed that the DC current shock is more dangerous.

Whereas, in the case of AC current, the person experiencing the electric shock can pull their hand back as the current goes to zero. Hence, it is believed that the AC current shock is least dangerous than DC current.

Please take care of your self,

This looks like the least dangerous video you Have ever made You forgot to give yourself a good shock and you only burnt your fingers a little bit.

🐻

Make dc to ac

🐻🐨🧸

😂 3:40

Fool Bridge Rectifayah...

Please don't touch it anyway

{(/bîd\)}

سلام

Why use complicated diode arengment? 
I have the best full bridge rectifier cause i use billions times more capacitance. I use 16v 900F (Farad) capacitor.

(   Ì.  )

FUUUUUUUUUUL BRIDGE RECTIFIAH




Its not a dumb single Diode rectifier...

Well Mesa Engineering already made a TRIPLE RECTIFIER. Amplifier (lame musician joke)

4x diode better

Only come here to laugh

Yes

 @hardnachopuppy  any link to something similar ? because i tried it and not able to do it

Because the diode is a ONE way gate and only takes HALF the wave. Adding a second diode would make it take the full wave plus If an object that is accepting power SHORTS it could send electricity in the OPPOSITE direction the Diodes in this would block it from continuing keep the REST of your items using electric safe from the spike. Especially if the short is lower than the fuse.. lets say its a 10 amp fuse.. but a 3 amp short.. the fuse wont blow and having no diodes would allow the electric in the OTHER direction possibly killing something else on that circuit that cant accept 3 amps. Here you can learn more about them here. https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/diode/diode_6.html

I am also making Tesla coil

So why is it called a full bridge rectifier?

Anyone else here in 2077???

Can u convert AC to DC by reversing this?

Love this video, but f*****g hate these comments.

what's the joke here? Usually this is called a full wave rectifier, no?

همشهری فارسی حرف بزن مام بفهمیم

3:13 3:14

I followed a link from some other YouTube video to this........... Funny as f**k !
I hope this is his usual video presentation style, as based on this one I've subscribed. :D

See, those winding-resistor things are inductors.

i need arabiac language

😛😛

I love this guy self-awareness regarding his own sense of security :)

Never get bored watching this. Those zapping aside, this reminds me of my school days, since I got Simple Electronics as extra subject at my high school back then. One of the homeworks was building a simple power supply, and I think it was the first time I learnt the existence of FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER.

“Full WAVE bridge rectifier.  The sine is flattened not halved. That would be a “HALF WAVE” bridge rectifier. 

And this guy is teaching other people. 

Jeez

so much interesting, i dont like that

Mad !Science is  conveincing  people not by force. Use soft words and approch.

i dont have any idea what hes talking about but all i wanna see is him doing dumb things

الکترو بوم داش 
ایرانی ای؟😂

You BARELY read the comments

Because FOOL BRIJ RECTIFIYA

That makes no sense and you didn't say it right

 @fearkratos444  ik its a joke thats how he said it

"Information" about the input AC signal (its frequency) is lost when it gets rectified so there's no way to reverse the same process to get that information back. A different circuit would be needed for that process.

 @thegreatzoom5073 .... i saw an inverter design to do it... but the wave pattern isn't good enough....

 @thegreatzoom5073  how to make it better tho? not sure if capacitors wll be the key

2:27
3:15
3:41

This sucks. I watched all your caca videos. 
Welp, time for round 2.

Iran ❤❤❤

It's just an ac adapter

Man can you at least wear the safety gloves...

Linus sent me here

Comment = dc Edison
Like - ac tesla

Not only did you build a FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER, but you entertained us as well. That was dawg darned effing FANTASTIC!

FOOL BRIDGE RECIFIER

naaaah, jus buy it .

حاجی بخدا میدونستم تو ایرانی هستی😅😅😅😅از انگلیسی صحبت کردنت فهمیدم😅😅

burr

02:03  Don't tell ppl this Fake news.

This guy dies every video

looks nothing like a bridge

When he says full bridge rectifier I feel the energy that this particular instrument handles like a pro.

Bro you are reckless

Edit:sorry no more

👎👎👎👎👎👎

Their should be movie about this guy SPARK!! 😭 AND THEN 😀. 😂❤️👌

Now I want to find some old AC adapters, both single- and multi-voltage output and poke around inside them.

It is true tho

I am not sure why it is also called a full bridge rectifier when technical language calls it a full-wave rectifier.

WHY DID THE VID CHANGE WHEN I WAS COMENTING

2025

obnoxious

Sir do have a video about diy DC-DC Boost converter?

Arête de brenché des trucs sur du 230v !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

The oscilloscope he uses is Rigol DS1104z. they should sponsor him.

2:12 this is almost the same noise he does every time he electrucutes himself

I can't believe you that lasy to fit a plug on the wires!!! We're every dangerous!!! We're bad example!!! my opinion is YouTube should band this tipe of videos!!!

They do not sell fool bridge rectalfier where i live, thanks to this howto i only got shocked once and have my fools bridged.

Thanks.

I shouted FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER in front of YouTube voice recognition now it brought me here. 
Give it a try.

1:33 Harmless spark

Watch 0:01 at 0.25x speed

*FOOOOOL BRIDDHGE RECCTIFIER*

👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎👎

Hopeless....boring...it's nothing big to full bridge rectifier....

So ... if  you can't feel high voltage DC with your bare hands, how come you get a shock at the end of the video from the charged capacitors ...?

Please accept ISLAM

I really wish I had a teacher like him. I would have showed up just for his class. Probably would have skipped the rest of the day for obvious reasons.😂

Full bridge rectifier or full wave bridge rectifier ?

A Full bridge rectifier Is the simples

FFBR - yeah fcking Full Bridge Rectrifier - We just give a training for HV AC/DC/DC converter - and 3 people at the same time. FUUUUL BRIDGE RECTIFIER -- is this Mehdi? - We will order a shirt.

Cheers

FULL WAVE RECTIFIER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

No Boom 💥 ??, Then no Video Habibi 🤣

I'm going to build a rectifier for my LED christmas lights. They're diodes, why do they not have one already?

You DID NOT MAKE a full bridge rectifier, you bought one, cant fool me, haha.

Hello. Is this +170V or -170V?
I am looking for a negative DC voltage. Could this help me out?

මූ වේලාව මැරිල ඉන්න එකත් මුගේ ම youtube චැනල් එකේ පෙන්නනවා ඔන්න බලාපං

Did you invent the "full bridge rectifier"  ? Why do you always say it so loud in the videos? Can you please make a video explaining your special behaviour about it ? Is a full bridge rectifier abnormal? In the newest video "So Many MISERABLY FAILED LED Lights" you also say it very loud... please tell us the "something special" about it... please

Can I built one that creates 1,000,000 dc volts?

You call that a rectifier? Where is the mercury and nice UV glow?

Ahahahaha omg. oh boy. hahahahahaahah at 3 minutes and 15 seconds. It's okay! He's an engineer! ahahahahahahahahaha and then later at 3 minutes and 40 seconds....hahahahahah oh boy. Spit my coffee out again.

บรรไลการช่าง🤣

wimpy piddling 120v ...paaah ! ! !

Nobody:










Mehdi: bUŕ

I made a bridge rectifier in prison to charge batteries.  The rectifier worked fine, but we couldn't find or build a working transformer.

wtf no audio

2:27 3:14

What is your name

He is very clever ,but acts like he didn't know anything. And he does like that to educate people about the precautions to be taken

who is watching in 2021?

good for arduino?

Love the videos.im so sick of this free energy #@!%÷$!..i live next to a 250 kw. Broadcast station.i just bought one million germanium signal diodes and a flux capacitor.im climbing the tower to 1000 feet now.i think i need a quarter wave rectifier cause their actual antenna is very short.lol.but now that i think about it??...when i get to the top im just gonna jump off!!cause im sick of hearing about free energy!

Use a DC-to-DC converter that can output the same negative voltage as the input positive voltage

What kind of language is this?

Sir lanka  🇱🇰

I think it's just a joke. But full bridge rectifiers are very common in electronics so it's a significant circuit.

Medhi

Does youtube consider your content safe for children ?

Can you build a bridge over Trump's wall?

i need a transformer that takes 120vac and turns it into 14.5 vac. cheap. please help. high current. 3000 watts at least.

I'm still confused as to why you can touch the 170V DC output at 2:00. Since the circuit is capable of driving 1000+W (170 V DC * 10 A = 1700 W?) of power and you're shorting the two ends, doesn't the body act as the load which means you could have a potentially high current passing through you?

Is it because you're touching only with a single finger which means the charge doesnt' pass through the entire body but rather just the finger? Shouldn't you still feel something (at least the finger heating up like a resistor?)

Why is DC less dangerous than AC in this case since the theoretical power output of both the wall outlet and FBR output should be the same minus losses from the FBR circuit and thus, having an equal amount of energy to kill you...

Makes fun of our language... Funny. At least our spelling doesn't look like gibberish squiggles like yours

Can you stop with the eyebrow thing at the end of each video? And maybe shave your arms?

I'm not sure on YouTube's stance but for the most he doesn't do anything considerably dangerous and his content is very educational so I'd say it's safe.

 @maxdout564  relax was a jock mocking youtube

 @maxdout564  And he bleeps profanity

So here’s the deal — just because that power supply can spit out 170 volts DC at 10 amps doesn’t mean your body is instantly gonna eat 10 amps if you touch it. Current only flows if there’s a complete circuit, and how much flows depends on your body’s resistance. Dry skin can be like 100kΩ, which means you’d only get maybe a couple milliamps at 170 V. That’s barely a tingle. Wet skin or cuts though? That resistance drops way down, and now it can get dangerous.

When you touched it with just one finger, you weren’t completing a circuit. You basically just touched one side of the battery. No return path = no real current through your body. That’s why you didn’t feel heat or shock — nothing was really flowing. If you touched both terminals (say with two hands), that’s when things get spicy, because now current has a way to travel through you.

And about AC vs DC: AC is nastier at household frequencies (50/60 Hz) because it messes with your heart rhythm. As little as 30 mA AC across your chest can send you into fibrillation. DC tends to just give you one strong muscle contraction, and then your body kind of “locks on” — still dangerous at high current, but statistically less deadly than AC.

So yeah, you survived because you didn’t actually close the circuit. It’s not that the power isn’t there — it’s that you didn’t give it a path.

Don't be discriminative, the Arabic abjad (a type of vowel-less alphabet) used to write his language, has much better spelling than English.

And your comment makes no sense, spelling has nothing to do with the way the script looks.

