I used to work at a very large manufacturing facility that was built in the late 1960s. This place was so big it had it's own power substation. They had incredible milling machines to create large parts for aircraft. At some point they were experiencing a large lagging power factor issue and the utility was going to require them to pay for a major upgrade to the power lines to the facility. One of their electrical engineers said hold on. He designed a system to use synchronous motors to create a leading power factor to correct the problem. He used these motors to power air compressors for the facility since they used a lot of compressed air. In 1980 we installed a 5000v 500 horsepower synchronous motor. It was the 3rd compressor in that building. Since that time a lot of the electrical loads have been changing. The lighting all changed from fluorescent to high pressure sodium in 1982. By 1990 we were replacing those with metal halide. Now those have been replaced with LEDs. The milling machines are all going to variable frequency drives. I retired in 2012 so I don't see what's going on there anymore.

Memory aid from the old days: "ELI the ICE man."  (An 'ice man' is someone that delivers blocks of ice back in the pre-refrigeration days, not intended to be a prehistoric human.)
ELI means Voltage (E) on an Inductor (L) comes before the Current (I) which builds up more slowly.
ICE means Current (I) through a Capacitor (C) comes before the Voltage (E) which builds up more slowly.
These are not really needed if you know how these components work, but it can help bridge the gap until trained-instinct takes over.
It's a tiny bit interesting (very tiny) that only one symbol/letter out of four ('C') matches its word's first letter ('Capacitor').

The fact that you have a relatively high number of subscribers gives me hope for the future.

Btw, you can change the backroom color of the schematic sheet in altium (in propierties around the same area of paper size) so when you print it you don't waste as much ink ;)

Nice fart at 44s.

This was a great topic. Thanks for a well+presented video. 

Many good quality LED bulbs have PFC correction built in. It is mainly to allow them to work with existing dimmers, but at least keeps the harmonics on the mains down.

Finally you made an explanation video about PFC. 🍓
I had been wondering how does PFC work.

Nice! 
Funny detail that this video also really shows how distorted the mains voltage has become, because of this problem. It's very common for it to look just like in the video. The top of the sine wave get "clipped" (almost like an overdriven audio signal) because of voltage sag when all the AC to DC converters with smoothing capacitor and no PFC, draws current only in that part of the wave.

Great video! Also, it only remains to add, that some power supplies use passive PFC in form of a huge coil on an iron core. The coil opposes the fast current rises of the capacitor without drawing too much real power.

Given the amount of DC devices these days maybe homes should include PFC'ed DC sockets as well as AC and have the bulky PFC circuit in the wall/at the fuse box? Then DC devices plug into DC sockets? How small can active PFC get? Is it acceptable to expect it with all DC devices in the future?

Brillient stuff. Learning curve. Thks for putting it out

Around 8:36 you didn't have to remove that rectifying bridge unless voltage would be higher than what it can handle. It would work fine just dropping voltage slightly giving you protection against reverse polarity.

That cola glass example was genius!

PFCs are mandatory already! If your device is CE marked, it should have been tested to IEC 61000-3-2/-3-12. Exclusions for Harmonics are <5W for lighting and <75W for everything else.

Wow! This is a really neat circuit. Always super cool to see how we're getting more and more efficient; it's small things like this that make the biggest difference at the end of the day.

It had not occurred to me to consider harmonics with respect to power let alone an active power factor compensation system. Very interesting video as usual!

Glad to see you got sponsership from Mouser!!
I love your channel.

I remembered all this from engineering school. You explained it a lot better. I remember calculating all of it and not understanding where I'd ever use it.
Funny enough I work at a large corporation now and use emails more than any engineering tools.

Didn't really "get" Power Factor (PF) until this video. Thanks for this!

This is one of my favorite things about YouTube. Older people telling stories of their younger days.

There's smart and then there's coming up with improvised power correction on the spot, smart

now it probably has leading power factor in the off duty hours, due to parasitic cable capacitance

 @DrRedstone172  They don't run the synchronous motors all the time. They only need compressed air when the machinery is running. It's also my understanding they can change the exciter voltage to change the lead, but I'm no expert.

Any chance that engineer spent time teaching at Devry in the mid-80s? I heard the same story from an EE professor there.

nice story

 @prashanthb6521  HELLO????????

I remember commissioning a SPF press at a BAE plant in the 80's that sounded very similar, with the same limitations on grid load.

The inertia of the synchronous motor might've also helped with current inrushes which are usually charged by utilities.

doubt, the only thing curbing inrush these days are star connections or vfd

They are called synchronous condensers or synchronous capacitors.

brush to brushless is also another savings

Talk about a reactionary!

I think ofc circuit its not always a boost converter, it can also a buck.

 @dadaroja2455  
If you need high performance over a wide range of AC input voltage you have to use a boost converter. If the requirements are relaxed you can, in some cases, use a buck circuit that is an improvement over a simple rectifier but doesn't achieve the very high power factor / low harmonic content you can get with a boost circuit.

People think I'm crazy😂

Led lighting is often a capacitive load.  It's causing issues with old buildings with shared neutrals.

I like to think that that guy  got a pretty wealthy bonus every year.

This was a cool ass story for a normie

Waste of motors as we correct power factor with capacitors..

 @lonewolftech  (if there was work which could be done, no skin off anybodies nose, caps are of course pure reactive so  achieve nothing but grid balancing.) ?? somebody probably did some sums, back in the day, caps may have been undoable/expensive - or the story may be unverifiable, who knows.  lol, this is just the internet.

I used to work so I dont see what's going on there anymore. In 1980 the lighting all changed to air compressors. We installed a 5000v 500 horsepower synchronous LED high pressure sodium.

Lots of people are interested in science. You just have to pack it up in an interesting video format ;-)

 @greatscottlab  It's not just the format, it's the attention to detail and the tangible examples. Your drawings are absolutely first class, I daresay you'd be able to outdraw most pen plotters!

He could also just print in B/W, but I think he just loves the colors :D

;-)

 @greatscottlab  I’m amazed at the amount of people who aren’t seeing the comparison you’re making with that. . Unless that’s just the best timed toot to ever be tooted. 😂

He let out the magic smoke. 😂

​ @DirtyPlumbus 😂😂😂😂😂😂 made my day

It was added on purpose to show how non-pfc circuits are poor😂

 @lalsinghtyagi8135  I’m dying over here 😂😂😂😂

I had to go back and check. Didn't even notice 😂😂😂

😳💨 "Great Scott!"

Came for the fart and stayed for the whole video.

"Is that burning Selenium rectifier in your pocket or ...." 🙊😂

Its not the fart that kills you, it's the smell 😂

 @nuclear-sparks  fart with no sound is the most destructive one😈🤣

The infartance is always out of phase with the insmellintance, it is a complex thing 😅

I thought it was on purpose lol

It’s a chair movement sound 😅😊

April fools 🤣👍

how did he missed while editing 😂

It was a sound effect?!

Replayed it a dozen times. Wonderful fart, mate.

 @bigpickles  good quality one too...

Hope you liked 😏

Ahaha 😂lol

Sometimes it just be like that

I bet it smelt like ozone

PFC stands for Perfume corrector factor circuit 🤣

Active Pooty Fart Correction

Lol I didn’t hear it the first time.   Very obvious the 2nd 😂

Came for the electronics, stayed for the fart

Hahaha classic

Thats funny! I heard it too. Epical 😂

Perfect timing too…😂😂😂😂😂

The smell is getting up my nose

Magic smoke?

I had to go back to the 44 second mark! That was a nice squeaker wasn't it?

I noticed too

I can't believe he dropped that sneaky bomber

​ @NickToland even better ... made my day 2

Something are better left unsaid 😂

🤣🤣🤣

🤭

It wanted to say' " great Scott", but was only able to say' " Scott". Nice try though!

0:44 poooot

Lol, I thought it was his commentary in that kind of power load 😂

SINUSO-DIAL FART😂 at 32s

I am imagining "human" playing.

Does using one of these help reduce your power bill?

😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂

Sound more like a chair

I thought that was emphasizing what the spike did to the grid

Jajajaj. Sneaky dog

0:44

0:40 hmmm, I'm not certain that's a fart, it's not like this is a live feed, it's recorded in sections and pieced together. Unless he just has a habit of hiding farts in videos, I haven't ever heard of that festish. He would have infinite time and multiple options for removing the "fart". Thus, for it to actually be a fart, because no one doesn't notice when they let out a loud fart, then he wanted a fart to be in the video. He could had simply turned the volume down for that 1 second, it's an awful Trumpy fart, like a sound effect of a Trumpet, and there are sound effects in the background. Seems like it's no fart at all, unless he just likes jokes(first video of his I've ever seen). Without an admittance of a fart I'm inclined to go with it was either a sound effect of possibly sliding an object on another object like say, pulling a chair out can make a very similar noise.

 @crimadellaphone9374  come on you should roll with us as we're just simply trying to banter around juvenile humor to release stress from our day-to-day boring lives by throwing around first grader type of juvenile humor which we should have outgrown 40 years ago yet here we all are talkin about farts when we probably should be at work trying to pay our rent but apparently farts are more important to us today as the boss isn't coming in until noon so if you don't mind I'm going to continue with the fart thing even though we know it's not a fart but for today it shall remain a fart temporarily

Days like this I wish I wasn’t deaf. Subtitles are pretty good on GreatScott- but no mention of a fart… perhaps needs a manual edit… :)

😂giggling coz with all the knowedge and experience this guy is sharing, what was taken from the video was just his fart. Look how far we have come…

 @hover3516  you probably meant “look how fart we have come” 🤣

...as long as you only hear them I dont care...😂

Nice to see you again

:44

Tell me why I farted and this was the first comment I read

Schööön einen raus gedrückt 😂

I mean if there is an untapped audience out there he might be aiming for xD. Jkjk

:D

Nice SoundFX

Yes, that was a good one👍

Bahaha

Everyone toots. Loud and proud!

Holy crap, that's such a brilliant fix! Thank you for sharing such an ingenious piece of equipment! 

Is there an opposite of this? Some very low wattage way of drawing max VA?

😂🤣.....  it was his dog !!

How he kept going withou laughing I've no idea ... 
I've forgotten what pfc stood for now ... Power Fart Control was it ?

😂

0:44 burft 😂

Even nicer timing🔥

Well, bless you @GreatScott 😜

👌

Easter Egg 🥚💩 for April 1st?!

Now that you pointed it out

It affected the wave

🤣🤣🤣🤣

seems like he overloaded and let out the magic smoke.

And this is why stripping out the ambient audio is recommended.

I thought this was a subwoofer review.

wow had to go back to notice that

LOL!

A time for a Finnish proverb: "Se joka pierua pidättää, tekee muutakin vilppiä". Translation "He who puckers up to avoid farting is bound to be a cheater in other matters as well" 😂

😅😅

"Next time we'll do a review of this gas detector PCB provided by our sponsor" 😂

It’s due to a diet of Bohnen, Bier, Käse, Kohl und Humor.

0:43 Thank me later 🤗

Things like these you shouldn't be talking about😅
Just ignore it

 @osamashokry4524  lol its funny though :)

 @osamashokry4524  what fun is that???😂

Thank you very much for the feedback and support :-)

Most do not. The regulation governing low power bulbs has been made in cooperation with the bulb manufacturers. This means that PFC is only required at higher wattage than those most common. As the limit is lowered, so does the power of the bulbs. Currently I think it is around 15 W, which is why manufacturers do not make bulbs above 14 W.🤑🎉

 @NightHound1337  WTF

Instead of having better products, we get capped ones

 @NightHound1337  Most do not. The limit is lowered governing low power only required at higher wattage then I think it is around 15w this means that the PFC is only those most common

The industrial LED lights do have much better power factor. But those start at like 300w each. Consumer LED bulbs are not really a big deal. They make up such a small portion to the power we use. Most of it is from powering motors in factories. To correct that, utilities more or less force the worst offenders to install capacitor banks

 @jim4556  in industries..it is a must to install P.F.C. based reactive banks to maintain the minimum allowable deviation of power factor. going below that , a penalty is imposed which is all part of the Utility Rules that industries have to adhere to.

If only they didn’t go nuts at the idea of including $0.07 of extra components to balance the power factor.

Triac dimming with LEDs is the dimming system from hell. Trailing edge better but neither give good power factor...they can't by their nature.

Love to (try to) read the comments from knowable people. However, the English is so poorly written that a significant portion of the comments are unreadable. Please folks, review your comment to make sure it is readable before clicking the Reply button. Or you can actually edit your reply after it is sent by clicking on the three dots in the upper right and correcting spelling and such.

Probably not. dimabble led has microcontroller, who decect how mant sinusoid us cut by triac.

 @wojciechbajon  Probably not. Many good quality LED bulbs has microcontroller. Who decect how mant triac harmonic mains down PFC

I think in the longer term at least in 240v land the grid will move to DC. Especially with batteries and distributed generation getting an extra 30% out of the existing wires will be a boon. I think it'll move down over time, already we see long distance lines running DC. I think that'll move into the lower voltage distribution lines and eventually to the final residential supply. People will get either a whole house inverter or wind up with small pucks that'll convert the 400odd volt DC in their walls to AC for any appliances too old to run on straight DC.
To be clear I'm thinking over the next hundred years or so.

@zyeborm  I don't think that will ever take off. Way too much power is generated with AC and consumed as AC. And DC transmission lines only benefit when you are combining two different AC grids that are not synchronized or when the capacitive losses far outweigh the resistive losses. Otherwise, AC goes much further than DC. 

It Would solve power factor issues but it does not fix harmonics, noise. All your devices would use buck converters amd as a result of the sharp spikes of high current, you will get inductive spikes that  will propagate as high voltage spikes down the wire. It's also much harder on switches both solid state and physical contacts. It's hard to break a DC arc so you get alot more heat anywhere it does.  Where AC has  zero potential crossing that exstinguishes arcs in electrical contacts. Then the high voltage spikes fro. Switching DC loads that have inductance or from connecting something with a large capacitance would be very hard on solid state switches. AC solves this. And it's not terribly exspensive to correct power factor. 

Adding capacitors to large motors or new motors, that enharently have better power factor, and useing motor drives that both correct power factor but also save energy on the application are already very popular solutions. Adding an active front end to switchmode powersupplies will be popular. Especially since they represent are a minority of the bulk of the power used.. popular in homes. Not popular in industry, it's just motors that use so much more power than anything else

 @zyeborm  Better yet, it’s unlimited free energy if we attach a generator to the corpse of Tesla who will be spinning endlessly in his grave about this.

 @zyeborm  I was watching this video and learned a lot but I had concerns or confustion:
i'll use numbers just for clarity not to suggest I am other than learning here.  Can anybody help me out.
1. If I use electricity from the grid, they charge me unfortunately, for apparent power, here in the US at least, so PFCs would seem to someteimes be good investment especially for big loads, say for my refrigerator and heat pump and the big washer dryer etc appliance motors and air conditioner (if u have) and hvac motors and rectifiers SMPS?  => So those would seem l lke worth cleaning up powerfactor.  and obviously industrial customers are surely more motivated.
2.   I guess I cant tell what my watt hour meter does what it calculates.. with regards to harmonics.  I think it is supposed to sample  V*I and average that over one cycle, say 20 ms for 50 Hz, if it were calc'ing actual power.  I think it calculates Vrms over one or more integer number of 20ms periods, and  I_rms over that many  20 ms periods, and and multiplies those scalars together, and charges us for that amount of apparent power for that number of periods, and accumulates that to get apparent watt hours?   so what happens to harmonics then, since some will increase the rms current or rms voltage or their product others not, with different effect on the actual power deliverd?
3. I liked this video great tips and scope work and explanation, but I couldn't tell if the PFC actually say saved me money, I'll rewatch but it must be using extra power to run the boost converter and the magnetics and diodes& power transistor(s) and stuff? did i miss that?
 so isnt there a tradeoff like get the PF up above say 0.5 or 0.707 to fix the worst of it but then diminishing cost returns?
 4. Also, doesn't the grid have an (Thevenin?)  impedance, if small, that needs to be considered, when doing the matching circuit?  And does a load like the LEDs actually change impedance as say the LED brightness is turned up, or my washing machine is working hard, or unbalanced, or heavily loaded, so you need to pick an operatng point to match at, presumably the biggest win is to match the impedance where the equipment say the LEDs are drawing the most?
5. in the video, I couldn,t tell if the PFC+LEDs  ended up drawing more apparent power from the grid, given the need to run the flyback, the scope view  didn't really look like it actually was at PF=1, looked more  like phase shifted so only 0.8, and fuzzy with high frequency switching noise?  Is that HF switching more of an issuse? and I guess if we get PF better than 0.8 or so, probably have most of the financial value..

Thanks for any input I'm sorry if I mis understood.. but it seems like there are  tradeoffs on how much to spend invest; and harmonics are confusing.
6. Finally it seems like the home power say solare+wind+biogas+  battery systems of the future will free us from utility crap and pollution, and we can kiss National Grid goodbye or maybe just to charge my sugarcane ethanol PHEV ..   If my battery sourced nano grid is AC, say 50Hz  it will will be less stiff and need a lot of PFC like thisnd filtering, and also will need to be able to start those big motor loads... will we then need good soft start or hard-starts? is that similar to PFC technology, but switched in?  Or will home power (nano) grids say be DC, say run from battery pack at 300V or 600V from a tesla pack that I pulled from a used EV or EV truck? will I then use DC to run some loads, using EV sourced motors, and then invert to run legacy appliances? Or have a VFD or muxed VFD to run those?  Or could nano-grids run at 400 Hz like aircraft, to reduce matching component size  i.e.400 Hz = 1/sqrt(LC)?
Thank you. Sorry if this has a lot of ignorance.. still learning, trying to escape the grid and its methane and CO2 and mercury in our rivers and lakes etc...

Hope you like it!

I used to work for a company installing pfc equipment in my local steel works on motor drives etc, we never used the dc method didnt even have pwm supplys back then we just got the the current and voltage close as we could for the induction motors to prrrr.

 @nuclear-sparks  For consumer electronics AC/DC - DC converters with PWM regulation are more efficient. The older stabilizers back from 1970th are consuming extra power for their own operation.

Considering that more and more device use switching psu's, maybe some day everyhome should use 320V DC power grid instead AC's ones, to eliminate those harmonics problem entirely...

 @jstwatchnread8420  umm, but I like classic transformer to power class AB amp. Class AB amps don't like switching power supplies, unlike class D. However, the main drawback of class D amp is they have high THD which I don't like. 🍓

Basically rectifier-> DC-DC converter with a transformer. You should not think of it as PFC or whatever sh*t, just a pwm variable input DC-DC converter, by modulating the frequency you can get a needed current "draw"..
Or 2-channel DC-DC converter.

​ @trevoro.9731  What are you talking about? In the standard boost PFC, which I think is shown in the video, there is no transformer

What?  Mains rms voltage dropping?   I just have a variable transformer and turn it up if the voltage sags.   Problem solved!    /s

He may be using an isolation transformer which could distort the sinewave. Connecting and oscope directly to mains risks a short circuit

 @smeezekitty  True - if he uses such a  transformer to power the load. 
It would probably be better to use it for powering the scope though. Then a much smaller and cheaper transformer could be used as well and any distortion like that shouldn't matter, since it's turned to DC before being used by the circuitry in the scope anyway. 
There are some small "pocket models" of scopes that can run on USB. I have one of those. They can measure mains stuff with no issue if powered from an insulated source like a power bank or cell phone charger. 
I could think a standard one powered by an insulation transformer would be similar. But maybe some scopes get noise issues if ground is left floating 
(and not the best for those who are concerned about safety, since if the scope has a grounded metal casing, it can go live during measurement - but as long as user/casing has no outer grund contact, it will do fine)

Interesting

Passive pfc's are ok for light loads..where the pcb/component area is not a constraint..since all components required are to function at i/p DC rectified ripple frequency 2×(50/60Hz) hence it becomes bulky although NO BULK CAPACITORS ARE USED.. ......typically single stage is most common a single stage is usually 3 diodes, 2 caps. & 1or 2 inductors  (  but 2 & 3 stage are designed..3 stage design reduces p-p ripple to about 30%...also has higher ripple frequency. so dc is good.

Single stage passive pfc's had widespread use in C.FL.'s with ratings up to 20-25 W.

AAAAhhhhhh! so that's what that honking big ass coil is for in the power supply units!!!! 🤗thank you kind man for sharing your wisdom.
And big thanks to Scott for lovely electronics lessons!

​ @ogi22 that's not usually the same thing. Most power supplies use active PFC these days unless they're really low powered. The large coil you see could either be a common mode choke used to filter RF/EMI noise if on the primary side, or part of an LLC resonant topology if on the secondary side, depending which coil you're referring to.

​ @ogi22  thats not what they are used for most of the time

I seem to recall seeing this solution in some older OEM computer power supplies.

Awesome vid  Scott Ty.

The choke (of a realistic size and cost) makes only a minor improvement of the P.F.

LC filtering instead of just straight capacitive filtering (edit to clarify - this is filtering AFTER the rectifier) will result in better power factor / lower harmonic content, but it isn't very practical with high-current loads at mains frequencies. It used to be common in high-voltage power power supplies such as those used in vacuum tube ("valve") circuits where currents were generally not very high, at least in consumer electronics.

There are passive "valley fill" PFC circuits that can improve power factor but I don't think they've ever been widely used.

@VeniVidiViral 
There really isn't much on mains that is too likely to cause problems with digital circuitry unless there is something quite unusual. I've seen some pretty hideous mains noise caused by an electric arc furnace used for metal smelting. It IS sometime necessary and always wise to provide protection against transient voltages that may occur on mains, but this is done with devices like gas discharge tubes, metal oxide varistors and the like. Inductance can be beneficial because it slows the rate of change of current so narrow spikes are easier to suppress.

The vast majority of EMI/RFI filtering, whether it is on the mains input or signal connections in digital circuity is to keep the noise IN rather than OUT. Switched mode power supplies can put a lot or RF on the AC mains unless proper filtering is used. Lots of RF noise can be carried out of shielding enclosure on signal cables. The ferrites that are sometimes found on things like video cables are to keep noise from going out on the cables, not to keep external noise from interfering with the signals.

@@RHRigs No, the one I mean is big like a mains transformer.

I use those adapters on my (string of) solar panels. Works great! 230 Volt is more than enough. When the grid goes down, adapters help me to generate energy locally.

I just imagined Elecroboom going "you removed WHAT?! 🤬"

I came here to comment the same.

That probably explains why it was so difficult for me to find a 12V PSU over 5A, because it'd require an expensive compensation circuit.

The lamp has 20W and 4W goes for harmonics. 
But you need 100 pieces for the hall.

You are right. I have now dismantled a cheap LED lamp from China, even there is a PFC built in.

But the question remains... who makes 160kvar a month for me!!! If not LEDs, there are still about 15 cameras or forklift chargers from Jungheinrich from 2010...

That explains why any laptop charger I have have PF around 0.48

​ @seedney If a laptop PSU has power factor correction designed in and the PF is 0.48, the PFC is shit.

Then is better to buy LED bulbs >5W

Sounds like most engineering students I knew. Wonder why they needed to learn so much math to write emails. XD

That's an easy trap to fall into.  A lot of the business types focus on the things they understand - business development, proposals, project management - and forget that once you've gotten that nice, shiny contract someone has to do the technical work.

There's definitely a place for technical-oriented engineers, but you have to push for that position.  I did (I'm an integrator/system analyst, not an engineer, but it's similar), and now I only work on the type of stuff I want instead of writing documents and tracking lead times all day.

​@Jeff Spaulding  GREAT 
Enjoy your work!
That's why I wanted to become an engineer. Unfortunately the business brains taking so much demand that only low time is left for engineering. 
I decided also not to be too far away from technology.

it is funny

I just want to say this:

This gifted kind of man, is really needed in every university and tech institute.

Cool , I still learn something new every day 😎

Did you hear about the guy who drew free electricity from the railway line?  He discovered that his metal fence was slightly live, so he insulated it from ground and powered his house from it.  Basically he was placing a capacitive load on the train (inductive motor) power lines which ran very near to his fence, thus straightening out the power factor.  Eventually word got out and he was prosecuted for stealing electricity, but in court he proved that he was actually reducing the train companies electricity bill.  He was not punished but the train company ran a grounded fence by their power lines denying him any further benefit..

Great video Scott

I always felt that resistors contribute to wasted power. You're effectively burning off energy in the form of heat, just to reduce the voltage.

Excellent, great job with the video! Perfect explanations !❤

Yes, the PFC circuit does reduce those harmonics for the device it is correcting, BUT due to all that PWM activity of the mosfet in the boost converter it could well be adding tons of harmonics back onto the AC mains. (Do a 'before and during' test with a spectrum analyser.) While this is not a reactive power issue this 'dirty' electricity has been shown to add to the EMF smog in the house and beyond.

Very very good!

PF of 0.58 (what that LED strip comes out to at 21W vs 36VA) is actually not too bad compared to most small switch mode power supplies. I frequently see 0.4-0.5, which is more the norm for small power supplies. 

My secondary computer monitor as an example is 0.38 PF (my primary monitor has dual USB-C with PD on both, so its 340W power supply exceeds the required load rating to require PFC by law, so it comes in at 0.97 since it has aPFC).

Thanks for the clear explanation.

From what I've read the real problem with uncorrected electronic power supplies is the amount of third harmonic current drawn, as in a three phase system the neutral current is supposed to cancel but the 3rd harmonics add.

One possible unfortunate unintended consequence is that with the power supply industry bragging about 0.98+ power factors in single phase equipment and crazy low harmonics it has caused a problem for the designers of multi-kilowatt systems.
It is easy to get a simple three phase rectifier to about 0.85, maybe 0.9 I can't remember the exact figure by just levelling the current drawn and sometimes an inductor is enough, but getting above that to the levels claimed for single phase designs is significantly more complicated. As a result installations that should be three-phase input end up using multiple single phase modules instead. Hopefully they are properly spread across phases.

I need to learn more about this, thanks for the video.

I’ve never heard of the foam to drink ratio analogy before until now. But it makes so much sense now. Thank you Great Scott !

Wonderful explanation! Another great video!

Not only because of LEDs, but with the increasing number of inverters, as a company we are starting to install neutral cables with bigger sections (it usually is half the phases section). Harmonics are starting to get at concerning levels in some places.

Excellent video! We all need one, just like you said! Thanks!

Amazing content as always!! Can we have a tutorial vedio that shows the basics of using multimeters to reverse engineering circuits like you do? That would be great!!

Very helpful and clear explanation of PFC.  Thank you!

Good news is that most higher power AC/DC power supplies like those in your PC include PFC circuits.

Thanks for the video!
Your explanations are so thoroughly clear!

But we need something to use,, e.g. PCB and SW for 2-phase BUCK, BOOST MPPT, or sinus 50 Hz 240 V / 40 AMPS inverter / HF or LF /

I bet you, even professors can't afford to post in/on YouTube.

I wasted 20 years of my life paying my own electricity bills without knowing what PFC actually is and why it is important.. this is the first video I've seen that actually explains it so that I understand it. This german is an international treasure and should be honored somehow. The EU should give out grants for science and technology educators like this!

​ @hvanmegen  As a private consumer, you only pay for the real power, so adding PFCs won't save you on the electricity bill. Your electricity provider will probably like you though.

Hopefully he didn't discover the metal fence was slightly live when relieving himself...that could have been an opportunity to sue the railway for creating a public (pubic?) nuisance :hourglass-purple-sand-orange:

It sure looks😂 like a lot of harmonic noise

Y.T. vids. with detailed PFC explaination show beer/ foam ratio analogy.

This issue became a big thing when computers first started hitting desktops in large office environments. There were instances of neutral cables actually getting hot enough to burn off their insulation. This is due to the fact that the narrow current pulses that result from simple rectification and capacitive filtering, as shown in the video, don't cancel in three-phase systems and instead almost 100% of the current would flow in the neutral contuctor - six non-overlapping pulses per cycle.

A lot of this was blamed on the use of switched mode power supplies, but any capcitively filtered rectifier circuit is just about as bad. Iron core transformers do slightly knock down the current peaks due to leakage inductance, but not in a very useful way. It was mostly just the fact that switchers were used in most of the devices installed when use of electronics in offices exploded.

Thanks. My first basics video was actually about Multimeters. Not sure if I will do another one.

 @greatscottlab  Do a poll on YouTube 😀

it became a regulation in the 90s when businesses were running hundreds of 300w tower PC in one location

True. Nowadays pretty much mandatory above 100 to 150W I think.

 @greatscottlab  the addition of PFC circuits was especially important for large data centers. In the early days of Google our servers didn't have PFC circuits which was fine when you didn't have many. We quickly learned the importance of PFC when we started building clusters with 1000+ servers. Without PFC we would run out of power capacity. PF on average was close to 0.6. Later server designs required a minimum PF of 0.9. Now a days most servers have a PF of 0.96 to 1.0. PFC circuits have become extremely important and have come a long way.

This totally depends on the standard requirements. 
E.g. IEC61000-3-2 for single phase devices or -12 for three phase devices. 
Only the cheapest solution to keep it will be implemented. 
In the lower power range mainly passive PFCs are used. Just shaping the current as little as necessary. 
Money rules, not the technical best solution.

I see more future for my business thanks to you.

Oh yeah, I remember when learning about the "power triangle" (apparent power is a vector made from real and reactive power) when working with 3 phase AC. When you want to compensate for inductive loads generating unwanted reactive power, we simply put a calculated capacitor in parallel to it. But I didn't know it was such a huge deal with DC appliances. I actually never thought chargers weren't SMPSs for the most part and were MUCH more rudimentary.

Great Scott => Great video

0:44 bro really bro💀

Mindblowing.   So cool.

It's also worth mentioning that the "apparent power" of a device with poor power factor is not the power you pay for in a residential situation; you pay only for the real power component. Power factor is a consideration and concern at the grid level, but will not meaningfully impact your own power bill.

I say this mostly because there's a lot of scam products out there that claim they can save you tons of money on your electrical bill by correcting your home's power factor simply by plugging them into an outlet. Even if these devices did correct your power factor (most don't do anything), they still wouldn't save you any measurable money, and their little LED will probably consume more power than they'd otherwise save!

Best explanation I heard about PFC my entire life.. I finally understand what it is!

The common household consists of   lagging power factor due to at least there being a fridge, ceiling fans, exhaust fans or an AC all of which require reactive power to operate. The most simple way to deal with that is to connect a mains voltage rated capacitor of 1kvar or more as required parallel to the mains breaker.
In most skyscraper/ big buildings it is mandatory to place an APFC Panel board to monitor and control power factor between -0.96 to +0.96

Fascinating stuff indeed! Thanks, dude! 😃
And yeah, I'm going to need a power supply pretty soon!
Stay safe there with your family! 🖖😊

Guess I'm glad that when building my 3D printer back then, I sprang some extra money for an active PFC power supply. I'm sure the various PWM driven loads create some kind of havoc power factor wise.

Wow,! No puedo creer que haya pasado tanto tiempo sin comprender como funcionaba el  PFC, el último gráfico de descarga y  carga de capacito me iluminó

Many of these power packs will run on 385-400v DC if you know what you are doing and test carefully. Internally they already rectify to that voltage. Caveat: 
The rectifier in the power pack will only be using half of it's diodes and can possibly exceed it's rating specifications.  
Our farter, who art in evven.

Nice, subscribed

Hey! Nice content!  If you testing and not sure about a device, just use a bulb lamp connected in series with it. It will prevent circuit from explosion.

Excellent1   Thank you!

Couldn't you just feed the HVDC directly into the device and just let the internal rectifier flow through? Sure only half of the rectifier would be in use, which half would be dependent upon polarity, meaning polarity would not matter.

...and now I know what power factor means....thank you!!😀

Love the videos! Wanted to ask if you were familiar on making PCB Antennas for custom Pcbs without needing to use external pre made modules like you have done before. I tried doing research on my own to help but nothing really helped me. A video from you would be very easy and informative to understand 👍

01:45 The SMILE is here. AWESOME. ;)

What I'm currently learning in class is that power factor correction occurs near powerlines. That is, the sum of the loads in a particular building are balanced adding shunt capacitors on power lines. Could anyone comment on this  in relation to the video topic?

@tripplefives I tried measuring the power factor of my vacuum tube receiver. The power factor initially was something like 0.95, then dropped to 0.87 or something like that once the tubes started conducting. The receiver does not have a filter choke, just two silicon diodes arranged as a voltage doubler.

Another device I tried is a VTVM. It has a tube rectifier for B+, no choke and some of the tube filaments are DC (selenium rectifier).
Instantly after turn on, it uses 52W, 0.97PF, then it drops to 30W 0.96 and once tubes warm up the power goes up to 54W and power factor to 0.92.

Maybe the inductance or the resistance of the transformer helps smooth it out. I have seen DC chokes only on some tube radios (in some cases they use the output transformer as a choke), most devices do not have one and there was no problem with power factor until switching power supplies became prevalent.

Switching power supplies are the ones with this current waveform. Older type power supplies with a 50Hz mains transformer have power factor of 0.9 or so, no problem there. In addition, they are simpler to repair and a capacitor failure is not so destructive. However, they are bigger.

🎺💨

Are ya kidding me mate?

Hey, Germany has a shortage of natural gas.

Thanks for the feedback. Good information about the skyscraper.

Un Compensated Reactive loads cause the havoc...pwm has no direct impact on pfc.

I've seen a few manufacturers rate supplies for DC and 400Hz operation.  It's rare but lets you run in spec with high voltage DC.

On the other hand in order to deal with the current peaks you get when running on normal AC the diodes need to be oversized.

Not necessarily. It will limit the current to the current needed for the bulb, it is very similar to just putting a resistor in series.

 @conorstewart2214  Not necessarily to put  bulb?! It not necessarily till your circuit will explode one time. 
And resistor isn't similar, it got fixed resistance. Bulb have changeable non-linear resistance. 
Also resistor not will show you if your scheme is workable or not.

I can put it on my to do list

@GreatScott!  I wonder how long that list is 🤔

Antenna design is kind of an art.  There's some theories out there.  They kind of work.

There are two things about antennas.  First is that all objects have an inductance and capacitance (which is what an antenna is).  Length of an antenna corresponds to a value of inductance and capacitance.  This also gets into wavelength.  All of these factors become inter-related and everything becomes proportional to 1/4 of the wavelength (rise to peak, drop to zero, drop to trough, rise to zero in a sinusoid).  It... is and isn't complicated.  You're charging an extremely small capacitor that discharges across the inductance of itself, forming a tiny tank circuit.  Because all of this corresponds to distance, you can get weird phenomena like reflections (you can "kink" high frequency electricity like you would a garden hose), standing waves (why putting metal in a microwave leads to arcing), etc.

The second thing is that stripline works by preserving the symmetry of transverse modes... while microstrip makes a great antenna because it does away with said symmetry.

To my knowledge, there is not, as of yet, a "theory of everything" for the electromagnetic spectrum.  When does a tank circuit couple fields versus produce photons... and is it photons mediating between the coils of transformers?

 @Aim54Delta  ah, thank you for your information

Yep. That is a kind of passive PFC. Measuring the phase shift and then adding caps accordingly.

 @greatscottlab  Sweet, and the question I was getting at was if they accomplished the same thing? Specifically in regard to the precision, I guess devices with built in PFC act as scalpels on larger systems.

And the reason this isn't done at the powerstation itself is because that would still require thicker wires to carry higher current?

3 phase capacitor banks with current limiting inductors switched in & out of circuit as required...
Early days it was with relay logic..
Later on through Z.C.D. THYRISTORS.
Then phase control Thyristors replaced them ..( precise control of current is difficult in above cases)
Nowadays  same is done with SERIES BACK TO BACK I.G.B.T.'s with full pwm & current control...
Each capacitor bankwas built up of 3 or more sub banks where each sub bank have different bulk capacitance....so different values can be selected as per demand.

Another reason is attempting to achieve equal load distribution of 
all 3 phases...active P.F.compensation does this..but other issues are to be considered...line harmonics..so harmonic filters are used..(active/ passive) also if such need them across lines or in series or both..
Neutral current monitoring / reduction & weather system requires 
floating or neutral point clamping..all involve deep practice & understanding of power distribution systems.

Very interesting! I learned a great deal. Thanks for sharing your knowledge with us!

At first I thought it was weird that music and electronics have so much in common with graphs and hz and harmonics and stuff. But it’s not really that weird when you actually think about it. Also. Music will only get recorded thanks to electronics these days so oscilloscope graphs looking like audio waveforms makes quite a lot of sense. 

What is weird is that I am not the only audio engineer I know that has a moderate understanding of electronics. Maybe there’s a whole bunch of us that just know how to translate different graphs to different things.

Get a few wood handled garden and or masons hoes, and cut the handles down to a few different lengths for pulling gravel laterally in varyingly tight spaces, to where it can be shoveled

Highly recommend to use ATX power supplies for larger applications. They're tested, rated and certified for all the good stuff one needs/wants in a PSU.

Cool, please make a Part 2 of PFC. Thanks!

0:44 fart 💩

I always enjoy your videos and often learn new things. Thank you for the effort you put into creating these videos.

I love your analogy of foam/drink ratio in a cup to explain Apparent power/ real power. Im gonna call it gretscotts analogy when explaining it to my interns & students.

Great content!

In the EU it is already mandatory for commercial devices that use more then X W 
But if it is a china import it may be avoided for better or worse.
Well for super small loads like that LED lamp adding PFC would cost a ton and to make it worth it you need to increase to lot the life time of that LED so costs simply balloon.

Great video

And how many watts does the PFC consume? I see a large heatsink...

Thanks for your sharing

Now I understand why Nikola Tesla won the fight against Edison 😀 thanks for this information 🤓. From now I won't plug my power supply for 24/7

I always learn so much from your videos, I usually have to watch them a couple times just so I can get a good grasp on what you’re teaching, lol.

Welcome to the farting teacher's channel!

I like this type of video far more, Scott!

0:43 who farted?

Great video, thanks.

How do i determine whether or not a PSU has a PFC when i can only look at it from the outside of the enclosure it's in?

Much of the math is literally identical across many fields because of physics fundamentals.  For example the 2nd order differential equation to model a flywheel and a spring is the same as an inductor and capacitor.  If you know how a hammer works you can intuitively understand what happens when you suddenly stop current in an inductor.

Yeah I know a dude who designs subwoofer enclosures based off math from circuit design , uses capacitive reactance, etc.. idk too much for my brain to understand

 @saiv46  because moving all the other power rails directly to the mobo you have to replace every time you upgrade is a great idea.

 @saiv46  Pray they never do. 12vo is going to be a nightmare of proprietary cabling on both the psu and mobo side of things as well as offloading an enormous amount of voltage switching to one of the most expensive and least reliable parts of your computer.

​ @saiv46  If you're looking at using a consumer computer power supply for just one voltage, it probably isn't for a project that is on frequently at all. For these temporary projects, the extra useful but immediately unused voltages really aren't a concern. A 12VO PSU would then need subsequent voltage modulating circuitry. Like buck/boost converters. With a current standard ATX PSU, and DIY projects, you're pretty likely to have use for 3.3 VDC, and 5 VDC on top of the 12 VDC. Those other circuits add complexity outside of the PSU and are likely not as high quality and clean as the ones in an ATX PSU.

 @saiv46  high power ATX12VO with separated DC2DC converter for another voltages (3v,5v,-5v,-12v) sounds good..

Cheap ATX PSU very simple like this 12V PSU. They are no contains PFC.

Ups

Haha yes. Pretty famous one. Usually beer is used for that.

 @greatscottlab  Well, thats the first time i heard that,

We have a building with 30 LED lights and I can't get a UPS to act as a mains fail backup on it. Did when the LEDs and UPS were new but I think the LED's power factor has deteriorated with age so the UPS can't cope with them now.

 @hoverbovver  interesting also since it is LEDS maybe a more DC solution is better?

True

75W and above requires PF 0.9 or better. Under 75W 0.5 or better. What we learn from this - don't buy crap 😂

Depends on the load of course. But yes. I does decrease the efficiency of the power supply by a couple of %.

Tesla won the current wars because of transformers.  In the time of Tesla and Edison, the only way to convert between voltages, was to use transformers and AC power.  Edison's DC system wouldn't efficiently transmit power over long distances, since it was limited to the voltage at generation, and the voltage people would use in their homes.

The DC:DC converter wouldn't be invented until the 1950's.  Had it existed in Tesla and Edison's time, we could've had DC distribution.

 @carultch  yupp but both ac and dc have their pros and cons so both are useful in certain places. @Electroboom even maided a detailed video on this topic.

Haha. It happens ;-)

Not me

Oftentimes you can't without testing. An exception is that if a power supply has an input voltage selection switch it is nearly guaranteed to lack active PFC.

It should be specified in the manufacturer specifications(they usually tell you the min power factor) or you can test it, or you can see the components inside.

0:43 our main voltage ripped one off:face-fuchsia-poop-shape:

Don't know how you did it, but the audio on this video is amazing

0:44: That clearly sounded like a fart 😄 lol. In general, very good content as always!

Great video!  PF is something I rarely think of but it definitely can impact our modern systems in a big way.

No two ways about it my young buddy, you are super human, so good to see you analyse these components and shed light on all things electronic.

I've always known PFC as "that thing that makes your devices work at both 120 and 240v without them blowing up". Very good video. Definitely learned something.

Applied Science has a real nice video on this topic.

Loved this explanation. Keep up the good work 👍

I can listen this guy for years....his so funny.....and EXPERT

I like the sound effect at 0:44 :)

Big
Brown
Capacitor

Yes. I have a lot of those in my parts bin too.

Very good presentation. This is something I was only dimly aware of and really benefitted from this.

Awesome! You explained so nicely. That's why I love your channel. Keep it up. 👌

Cool video.

Thank you once again for your clear, easy -to-understand explanation. Love your videos

This is just on time. I was learning about computer PSUs and you just showed up with the perfect video. Thanks

I learn the most important stuff from this channel. Real practical electrical knowledge, explained in a way I can understand.

Our Professor used beer for an analogy

I work in a power installation that draws about 400A, supplying thousands of LED lights. Power Factor has not been the concern but harmonics and large neutral currents.

thanks,  very interesting

Oh stop it ;-)

Amazing ❤❤❤

Valuable information thanks

excellent explanation thanks so much

cool Video!

Great! And my own handwriting looks like old Egyptian, while yours is very neat and clear. I am jealous! Thanks for the explanation in apparent and real power. Splendid!

As always very well explained and clear understanding 🙏👍

Thanks!

I need to study this.

Thanks for the videowhaaa!

Thanks

great explanation! I learned a lot, thanks!

Happy palm Sunday scott

This is a bacholar degree lesson for youtube . Thanks for footage

7:40 seen these inside the control panel of diesel generators.

Great

Nice video 👍 I liked it

You rock!!

With all this inforrmation that i learned from this video, now i have to overhaul my hamshack which is a lot of work. Thanks 😅

LED's draw power apparently! Nice 👍

nice.hey can you make a video about amplifier noises and how to fix them?

HI, further to my previous post I have been told by the meter manufacturer that the sampling period for AC current is 100ms.  If I understand correctly the cycle time for 50Hz is 20ms, therefore it looks like my meter measures my current use every 5 voltage cycles and assumes that the current waveform is sinusoidal.  MY office uses many LED lights and other electronic devices and the current waveform is not sinusoidal, not symmetric and just a mass of spikes.  It seems to me that there is almost zero chance that my electricity is being accurately metered.

Serious O-Scope you got there.

Nice. Active PFC has been on the market for good PC power supplies since quite some years, but I guess it has to be everywhere. Chargers, LED light, everything that does not is an ohm resistive load.

Another interesting option that we implemented was using Active pfc on sec. side ...though the large input step down transformer was needed..
good efficiency & pwr.factor was achieved.

lol was that a fart!!! 0:44

I studied at University of Technology, Sydney. I had an interesting capstone project which is Wave energy. I did a successful design of it.

Yes, I learned sth today!

'Today is a good day to learn', to paraphrase Worf.

There are also PFCs that act more like filters.
The input is AC mains voltage, the output is also AC mains voltage, but even if you hook up a dirty consumer with an abysmal power factor to its output, you still see a perfect power factor at the input.

A very interesting video thank you! Something that most people will never consider due to displayed wattages on products and the accompanying assumptions that this is the only figure of concern. Well done GreatScott! :)

oh, whow, big thanks! I'm a small-tier electronics and mc hobbyist, but I was totally unaware of it, I only knew it from small power supplies, but never researched what that exactly means

You know you should a course on how to use all the features you use on that oscilloscope.

It's always nice when components work and don't blow up😁. Listening to you talk about these electrical circuits and how they function is like trying to understand someone that speaks another language. I get some if it but you have such a good understanding of it it's just second nature to you. It's the same way when I try and listen to a MD talk about medicine and the more advanced science involved with treating patients when they talk to another doctor.

Cool. As a layman though I only understood, maybe a 25%, of what you talked about over the whole video?

Let's get started - The Kathy swipe.

I am struggling with it . Thanks bro

When you said "and nothing exploded" -- I lol'd b/c I say that to myself after every time I wire something

I have a Omnicharge power bank, which I believe offers this on its mains prongs as „HVDC“ Feature

Hark!  The majestic call of the German barking tree spider, rarely caught on camera! 00:43

Well all apartments have both sources of leading and trailing power phase shifts which make the issue less important as we see when checking one device.

Wonderful video. .. PLL basics video Greatscott .. please

I need hat wire stripper. Looks like an heavy duty version of my Weidmuller

This is pure gold, you should consider make a spanish version of your great videos, they will love this.. as much as i do, im very greatfull

This is useful, thanks. How many dc power supplies can you run on each PFC board?

This is why I'm a huge fan of current controlled sources. Especially with semiconductors.

Wish I could install one of these on my apartment switchboard. To make my meter reading go down 😂

Very well explained

Recently I salvaged APFC circuit part from 350W PC powersupply, now I use it to power my 24V DC powersupply. Ofcourse I worked carefully, because it gave 385V on main filter capacitor.

Surprisingly you didn't mention the word "deformed power"! I remember it from your old basics video.

0:43 the sound hahaha

0:44 the sound made me laugh.

A good demonstration of the ELI the ICE man.  Voltage (E) leads Current (I) in an Inductor (L), while Current (I) leads Voltage (E) in a Capacitor (C).  My college professor would be proud!

nice

Ach ja die gute alte Wirkleistung Blindleistung und Scheinleistung

We would love to see a diy pfc video

thank you very much 🙏

Power factor and reactive power can be seen pushing a playground swing. If you push at exactly the right moment, you can use only a couple fingers to lift a toddler over your head. But if you're not in phase with the motion of the swing you'll be fighting your own kinetic energy or maybe even break your wrist.

DO SOME weird aliexpress tech again please , love those ;)

Hi Scott.
¿Could you do a video on how to replace a regular potenciometer from a board, with a digital potenciometer?

Now that's an Easter Egg! 0:44

thank you scott. i have a project and went straight to mouser.

Thank you  :-)

You're most welcome

Awesome. Glad you like their stuff as well.

0:20 European power socket is just hilariously monstrous 😮

Damn Scott! Rockin' a $18,400 (that's w/o taxes) Keysight Oscilliscope! You're badass!

I would like to see a deep dive on transformer design if you are looking for ideas. To better understand saturation and how to design for higher frequency and it's affect on the size of the transformer.

Make the diy or buy episode about metal detectors. I really hope to see it.

Meanwell PSU that creality used to use on the Ender 3 Pro has a 0.6PF most of the time.
An issue w/ capacitor PFC is that higher harmonics can cause higher currents in the cap and premature failure. It's a big consideration for utilities when VFDs are nearby.

I've rebuilt your latch switch circuit and want to send the schematic to you for checking deeply.

You showed us a board and a IC, but didn't talk more of the details. I don't know what makes a good active PFC board or nothing really to identify what might be a bad PFC board design to avoid. This is an interesting topic that I'd like to hear more info on.

Current standards only require devices above 65W to meet a certain power factor specification (can't remember off the top of my head, but probably something like 0.9)

1:47 thanks for bringing old intro back, i never liked the cube grid one...

Strange examples the 'pure' power of the heat gun neglects the inductive load of the blower. Your picture of the led power shows the current in phase with the voltage.

Can be a theme. Spot the hidden fart. Every video has one.

Very nice video. Could you provide a link to the fake load you use to test your power supplies please? I see it in almost all your videos and it looks quite good!

A very good explanation of the efficiency of the used electrical energy.  The problem that arises is with dirty input energy.  Where various devices connected to the network leave traces in the form of high-frequency harmonic oscillation.  These phenomena are best observed in high-rise buildings with several apartments, which are connected to a single transformer station!  Another point that you can show is at what DC input voltage the device starts working normally and if the components can withstand the DC stress.  Capacitors are not the best friends with direct current because it fills them up and doesn't let them breathe, causing them to burn out.  And manufacturers use these stress statistics to make products with an approximate lifespan of around 5 years of constant use.  However, coils have an enemy in high-frequency pulses, because their property is inductive in nature, they create counter currents and amplification of the electromagnetic field from the surroundings into the very circuit that we use.  So that in a society with more and more devices that use wireless technology, it is necessary to protect the coils from the signal-filled environment.  It would be nice to have an efficiency coefficient close to 1, but until this is put into law and forces manufacturers to comply, I don't see why they would do it by themselves and guarantee a long working life of the devices.  Just looking at smartphones and computers, even if the device itself is still working after 5 years, we now have to throw it in the trash because there is no software support, and spare parts stop being produced after 3 years of the product release!  And let's not forget that just one such device usually costs at least two salaries of an average working person.  And everything that is cheaper no longer has service or software support!

Awesome channel. I don’t know Jack diddly about electronics and couldn’t follow other channels that were teaching to people that already knew. I’ll have to watch this 100 but I’ll get more out of it each time.
Came here because I’m wondering how much power is being consumed by a houseful of phone chargers constantly plugged in.

Better to have a 12/24/48V DC curcuit in every house. This is very easy to get from solar or wind installed locally

More important thing is, are you going too work out on making it cheaper, bypassing the extortioners, in any further videos?

Could you please do a more detailed video about pfc and how it can be implemented in daily devices? Or how it can be implemented in a solar project to save power?

We'll information good

The heat gun has great power factor because the majority of its power is consumed by a resistive heating element.

Very interesting. Any comments on the consumption while not under load? The standard converters tend to drain power all the time.

The mighty Schuko plug! It's actually a great design, very good safety and reliability.

👍

why the need for registration to view those reference guides, also using a ad tracker as well so nice of you to track your downloaders

I was expecting electroboom to make a cameo

Working in power transmission, our shunt reactors are pretty much on all the time nowadays where our cap banks are hardly ever used. Because loads are switched so much from inductive loads to capacitive loads.

Also the loss of large spinning generators doesn't help.

I believe one advantage of passive PFC is it can directly installed on AC loads. I'm not sure if this can be applicable in AC too(?).

I wonder what these circuits before but after researching one of those chips I found out what their functions really are. Found these in some LCD TVs psu and one in Behringer powered console psu.

Wow those LED strips draws current like good old incandescent bulb :)

Excellent

I have a couple of those 5v power bricks, but I do not use them at the moment. Currently I run my circuits (typically an esp32 with 50 leds) from a USB phone charger. I don't run the led string at 100% intensity and not all are on at the same time. Sure this doesn't do anything for PFC  but power consumption reduction is always a plus.

That problem is nonexistent. The fart at 0:44 proves my point 😂

How about a video on converting existing DC DC power bricks to PFC.

Do you think one day houses will have a separate DC circuit for charging low power devices and running lights?

neat

Cheap LED drivers often achieve power factor correction with a single stage topology. Mostly a flyback one. But the output has a lot of voltage ripple. Almost like a 50hz rectified voltage. Thats why you can see the LEDs flickering. Specially one cameras.

However, the electricity meter currently only measures the active power and not the reactive power. Thus, PFC makes it more expensive in the private environment

This is like vswr in rf applications

SIR your efforts contributions to new innovations things will definitely help Global warming..Good Job ..May Almighty Bless you 🙏 ❤️

ELI the ICE man.

Grid operators have big synchronous compensators (also called synchronous condensers), that are basically free spinning synchronous motors, to actively adjust conditions in the transmission grid. They are a more flexible alternative to capacitor banks. They were introduced in the 1930's and have been in widespread use since 1950's. They are still needed, especially due to wind and solar farms. In my opinion there should be requirements for PFC also in consumer equipment. There is so much crap out there.

10:36 are ya pumping electrons with your hand (right upper corner)?

Cool technology.

The IC making money 7:25 and that it's the problem to make me fail to repair the PSU board. Due to most of the local store are not selling. The only sales are the entire Circuit board.
The old type of power converter just required to fix back the coil and do some replace like recap and replace diod. now day required to fix the more and replace valve, resistor, cap and the especially last difficult to find component part is the IC.

Only with 400 more parts and failure points....😂

Thanks

And of course the demo circuit device for this is twice as big as the already big power brick it's being used with. Hopefully they've got some of these things packaged in a much tidier form factor.

Its crazy LED strips can use  like 2A

Active PFC does help with SMPS ‘top-clipping’, but mandating it in every small device adds complexity, cost, and failure points. Leading or lagging power factors can often balance out on the grid; top-clipping is different, yet could still be corrected using grid-level inverters that draw power evenly and re-inject it where needed. A small premium for end users to cover real vs. apparent power may be more sustainable overall than over-engineering each appliance.

Was that a fart at 0:44? 😁

8:07 you and Mehdi are so different...

Mains harmonics, especially on the common line (in the US, at least) have made X10 control systems obsolete, as it wreaks havoc on the data signal. Zigbee and Bluetooth were developed in part to address this.

What new thing I learned from this video:  If you write with your left hand, you have to go over each letter twice, which is as efficient as a 50% power factor.

Remember during the 3 day week the government recommended removing one of the fluorescent tubes in the dual tube light fittings to save power.......effectively screwing up the power factor by removing half the capacitance.... some bright spark engineer pointed out the error of that particular recommendation in short order!

0:44 toot indeed!

If you ever have the time, I'd love to hear your background story one day, about how you got started in electronics, how you came to make youtube videos, and even how you learned to speak English so very well. I'm sure many of your fans would love to hear about it all too!

What matters most is the sum of all loads, which can be complex when dealing with devices like motors that run intermittently. In the past residential power factor consumption has been close to balanced, with the relatively small inductive loads of motors washed out by much bigger resistive loads. I'd be interested to see if the balance is tipped by the capacitive load of LED lights, but more likely the effect is so small it is still negligible. Perhaps in an ideal world the capacitive LED's will balance inductive motors! In any case, even if PF balance is off, the technology for distribution line adjustment is pretty simple.

Active PFC, such as used in computer power supplies also tends to short and explode when the big high voltage capacitor fails. I ave seen a few of such failed power supplies and managed to repair them. Still, when it fails, it not only turns off the load, but also trips the breaker, which means other stuff turns off as well.
I can just use a bigger cable and avoid this problem. Even if it is not frequent, it is very annoying when it happens.
The power grid sees constant 0.8 power factor from me though, because that's how the input for my big UPS works.

Active and reactive power

One very important thing why a PFC is needed is, that one can get pretty serious EME problems when operating with high currents.

BTW: 
Im very disappointed that you didn't use beer for the comparison of apparent power :)

As a german i would have expected the explanation based on a beer 😂

Thank you - I learned  a lot from this video. The problem is that we are overloaded with cheap Chinese power supplies to power all the appliance sin our home. Very few manufacturers make decent quality powers supplies.

Leave it to a German to make a foam to drink ratio reference. Always got beer on the mind

someone forgot to edit the fart out 0:44

The funniest sentence is'' I pluged the circuit into mains voltage and was very happy to find out that nothing exploded''

Power factor legislation is needed to regulate the PF on retail and commercial power supplies. When it costs more everyone pays. The PF should be listed on all power supplies.

Well over my pay grade but always interesting content

What do the Electricity meters measure? my question includes both the old, mechanic ones with the rotating discs, and also the new digital ones.   Do they measure apparent power (VA) or real power (W) that we pay for?

Thank you very much sir

Howcome did you remove the bridge rectifier? It would have caused a 1.4V drop but would still have worked just fine?

I run most of my interior lighting on DC. No power factor or harmonic distortion issues, and no flicker (to which a family member is sensitive).

But then I'm off-grid so there's a handy source of DC here...

I learned about PFC when I was involved with a tech start-up in the late 80's that figured they were going to take the world by storm with a sine-modulated UPS. I had just come out of technical college having gone back to school as an adult. I thought they seemed a bit naive but it was more interesting than what I was doing so I signed on.

I had more practical experience as a hobbyist than the PhD who was in charge of design. PFC was just one of the critical factors that he should've known about but didn't. Oh well, I had a fun couple of years laying out circuit boards for prototypes and watching them blow up on the workbench. Later I got to contribute to the design of an ASIC-based inverter controller IC. That was fascinating.

After we parted ways with the PhD we managed to get the major operational bugs worked out of the prototype, but when an opportunity came up to jump ship, I took it. No regrets.

Just experiencing PFC in practice with a portable PowerStation and a compressor ice maker. Plugin power meter shows ~80W, with a PF of 0.5. The power station seems to draw 150-170W from the Battery as far as I can tell, and with that the battery drains much faster than expected. Now I will watch the Video and see if there is a "plugin-between" solution between ice maker and inverter.

There is a little history laid out in the introduction section of the following paper. DCM Boost PFC for High Brightness LED Driver Applications- "This paper is concerned with the derivation of a discontinuous conduction mode boost PFC rectifier as a driver for high-power LED lighting applications."

Scott. Did you just fart at second 44?🤣

Im trying to find a way to control proportional valve using raspberry pi for a project!

Man I love your videos. But was that a fart @ 0:43 😅

Now figure how many Watts were saved over the service lifetime going to LED from incandescent. PFC circuitry is indeed, helpful in modern power supplies.

your videos are interesting as always, can you do videos of programmable dc buck converters like drok DKP6012, XY6015L, Juntek B3603, DPS5005,  may used this as MPPT charge controller using esp32 using a custom firmware. It will be helpful for Diyers like me to build diy solar power storage.

Powah

Isn't this what the "power saver" bricks do?

Are there power supplies which attempt to correct the "power factor" of the grid, if it is distorted? Instead of having dedicated power factor correction units, large loads would act as such as needed.

Please review cn3722 mppt, thanks

Mehdi wont be happy you removed the FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!!!

I am not very good at electronics, but you were very clear one this topic. I really enjoyed your pfc video, what would one look like for a house?

Is there one can put on your whole breaker box? Then I guess would save power.

It's ironic how electronics technology has advanced its way into apparent power issues that were once confined to mainly AC Motors. When linear power supplies were the norm EE's & ET's rarely encountered low PF issues. Come to think of it, though not PF in the reactive sense,  RF techs deal with transmitter's Final Stage DC Input Power (E * I)  vs measured RF Output Power into a 50 Ohm Dummy load. 
Wakodahatchee Chris

Most welcome

PFC were mandated in the EU for all PC power supplies in the late 1990s. Worked at a large electronics OEM manufacturing company and was directly involved in implementation of these changes, we produced power supply's for customers like IBM, Compaq, Apple, Olivetti and others.
It amazes me that they have not been more widely adopted in other countries.

NCP1608 is a good option it's reliable, cheap, and most importantly, it uses a current shaping capacitor to reduce THD which means no line feedforward network is needed

I don't usually comment on videos, but this was a fantastic video!

Love your videos Brother. 
I am an Electrical and Electronics Engineerand each of your video makes me correlate to the theory that I encountered during my graduation. 
I always liked to experiment around with all these stuff but to set up a testing and experimentation station is costly. 
And, the university didn't use to provide time and resources for undergoing such experiments to graduates.
However, seeing your videos make my dream of testing and analysing electronic projects come true. 

Thanks again man. 
I Love your content. 
Love from India.
Keep on blessing us with knowledge. 😊

Nice

I have lived off grid for 15 years, I have a lithium solar battery array which I've had for 5 years. The inverse of your argument is true for me. I love my direct DC LED lights and appliances. Heat-produced appliances running off my inverter like my rice cooker and heat gun are losing about 30% efficiency.

Maybe we should switch to local DC networks at the household level

What about main's current before PFC? Mean PFC input current.

Heyy great scott i have a great video suggestion ( personally i would love ) could u make like a class a subwoofer amp like for 200watts ( i wanna build it but im stupid )

I need a pfc controller ic but not getting at my market

Nice video, I am not overly smart when it comes to electronics and electricity , and I wonder if as described here for Europe A/c voltages...
But will these principles hold true for , DC
? ... In principle that is...
Thanks.
Thom in Scotland.

Just for information, in Portugal (and I believe more European countries), only Active Power is billed for private end users. So, having reactive power on the grid side doesn't mater too much for the money the user pays is concerned. However, for company customers, the electricity provider also bills Reactive Power. However, the KWh price on reactive Power is different from the Active Power.

Why don't we have a common DC outlet? instead of having each appliances have a seperate adaptor?

wizard Scott is publishings new video 😋

Lets go

would be cool if you could do/use GPT4 in a video

2:47 my professor always used the Lay's chips example

0:44 Has anyone noticed the fart blooper in the voice dub 😆

Pretty good video, thank you.
I want to ask if anyone knows the simulator for the sum of waveform from the signal around 6:21. Thanks in advance.

I used the IRAC1150 14 years ago to make a ballast for sodium HPS lamps. 99% - IR1150 was the absolute easiest chip to use and they discontinued it.

I worked at HP and we had to comply with IEC 555-2 which came about because switching power supplies were creating excess current in the neutral wire which was typically undersized compared with the phases. That resulted in house fires in Germany when the neutral overheated. We designed PFC into power supplies that we deployed worldwide. It would be difficult to find a switching supply that meets regulatory requirements (FCC, CE, TUV, etc.) without PFC.

I appreciate that!

He farted at the 0:44

Thanks

Also a good one.

Ericsson car chargers, Apple, Huawei mains chargers have it inbuilt. Other car chargers drain car batteries too quickly. This module can be so small, can fit into everything, including better power banks.

anyone else notice BBC at 4:06 ?

Nice video. I can only note at 8:00 professionals don't put PCBs with grid voltage traces on a bare table. Professionals use distance bolts.

Won’t adding an inductance in series with a capacitive dropper to cancel out the power factor also cancel out the reactance?

In other words, pfc allows electricity meters to record higher readings even though there’s no change in the led functionality.

Hi, great video thank you.  I have a lot of LEDs and computers and small power supplies for routers, switches, CCTV, video door bells, etc, etc.  My electricity bill is massive and does not add up.  Might it be possible that my electricity supply meter that is measuring kWh is seeing high current spikes and assuming that my load current is sinusuidal?  It seems to me that my new supply meter is not using True rms current measurements.  Do you have any suggestions or thoughts?

CE Compliant products need to have a PFC circuit if the harmonic distortion is over a certain level. So, choose CE certified products..

Which input did he connect to the PFC output? Can anyone explain it to me? on the AC input or on the rectifier bridge he removed?

Those are some nice wire stippers/crimper.  What brand and model are those?

Good explained as always expected from you bro❤👌👍

Most new PSUs require a pfc device... the issue comes when you want to buy a UPS... it needs to have pure sine wave... which is more expensive

Here we are to appreciate another video ❤

Don't a lot of OEM Laptop Power Supplies have PFC's built into them? A lot of those power supplies are advertised as 90%+ efficient so is it a lie or based on a different parameter?

What about very reliable ferro-resonant?  Invented in Germany, no less.  NO transistors, totally passive.  And it works.

Are you gonna share a PCB design for active PFC circuit using the IC you like? Por favor?

I was using my fancy new clamp meter to try to find out how inefficient my laptop and phone chargers were, imagine my surprise when they required an apparent 0.95 amps at ~120v just to supply 65 watts?! I did find learn about power factor and viewed this rather nice video, but I still don't really know how to measure the actual efficiency (or heat losses) of these DC power supplies...

I don't understand why you needed to remove the bridge rectifier at 8:36, as since it is full-bridge, it should have passed the DC just fine.

Hey, could you make a video about the MyPv ELWA ? Its used to burn ecces solarpower to make hot water. I find it very interessting becaus its supposed to modulate the amplitued of a sinewave in order to controll the power. I cant really wrapp my mind around how they are doing it, and the small form factor they are in. Could you take a look?

Great shirt....I WANT THAT ONE

Turn the heat down on that heat gun and get back to us about "mostly looks like a sinewave" and has a current in phase.  
You can tell by the short delay at the zero crossing that the heat gun heating element is phase controlled.  At lower heat settings, there will be significant distortion to the waveform along with a bad displacement power factor.

Real profesionals use rubber mat whit spacers 😂

Last I checked, wood is an excellent insulator. Who tf cares? Talk about picking nits

Thank you so much 😀

Thanks mate :-)

​ @greatscottlab  I always learn something new with you, I started because I like electronics and was learning English, I stayed because your content is excellent!
Thank you for this good videos! ❤

You can buy it. A shop is linked on my YouTube channel ;-)

Still better than cheap ones which use a half-wave rectifier when on low.

Good work on increasing efficiency in decreasing waist I'm a huge fan of that but having said that this solution requiring a lot of effort on your part directly benefits of power company significantly but absolutely none of that manages to make its way back to you kind of like a reverse philanthropy

Towards the end Which input current do you show on the scope ? The one measured at the power supply input or the one at the input of the PFC? That was not clear.

Great video, but ...
A foam analogy with cola? 
I think every german learned this a little bit different at school or university 🍺:D

And what about these LED strips working on AC without the power supply? Do the perform better? How looks the comparison?

I use a chargery c10325 to charge my diy 84v ebike battery, the cheap charger used as much energy on 3 charges as this does doing 4.

Is there a simple (cheap) way (i.e. no oscilloscope) to monitor your power factor/harmonics for the whole house ? detection is the first step..

What if we used a lowpass filter to cut out these higer harmonics?

In the past it was so that a power supply with >75W must have a PFC, to day they have changed the rules (example: DIN EU 61000-3-2) and the value is not lower, I think it was >5 Watt these days.

Im kinda happy about this video, even tho I didnt watch it yet

no brasil residencial casse B não paga pelo fator de potencia o que torna a energia mais cara

Please recommend some good PFC power supplies.

Can you make a video on the board with the big fan and the LCD that you feature in every video?
This one 11:10

Very good video, high PFC could help save money  especially in your retailer bills on a KW basis or has demand tariffs. 

Though more often than not, it’s an old Pool Pump or bad AC unit which is responsible for the inductive load, more than modern electronics

Excellent video! The mouser site lists this as 750 mA for the board, is this the max current that can be used with this device or something else?

This is why we need pulse energy. Also, we need coil and capacitors at the same values. That way we can pulse them at a very steady rate or frequency. So close to 0 is what we get. I.e. Nicholas Tesla's energy.

The UK's roll out of smart meters are able to measure AP (SMETS1&2),
 and there are plans to start charging based on this. We have been warned....

There are Countrys with smartmeters that charge you for used apparent power, not real power! - that would incentivise enough to use only clean devices !

instead of using  PFC why cant we switch to HVDC , since in future there will more resistive loads ( EVs).

Excellent video! One of the most apparent circumstances where a poor power factor can be an issue is when using backup inverters. Your 1500VA backup inverter is only going to reach 1500W if you've got a perfect load on it. If you've got a poor power factor, you'll have to derate the power rating!

I think we need new standard for appliances using DC voltage around 400V, so we can use central PFC, then we can use lightings that don't require PFC on every single of them making them cheaper and more efficient without needing rectifiers, and we will slowly shift to DC power as most modern appliances work on DC.

Wow, that’s interesting.  I’m going to start charging my e-moto with a dc-dc boost converter directly from my solar battery bank though so I would imagine that’ll be the most efficient.

I hope you will enjoy it :-)

It aint rocket science

Great point! I blew up a couple of cheap inverters trying to charge e-bikes with a cheap chopper charger. I assumed a 500w inverter would run a charger with an output of 100w easily, WRONG!!

OK but to solve the problem pragmatically we need to deal with existing devices. How do we easily retrofit them? One way I see is to couple this circuit with a special inverter (which has no losses on reactive power) and plug it into the reactive accessories power rail for the entire home. I just don't know if such an inverter exists and how to find one for the right power rating.

Do you have any entry-level oscilloscope training videos?

I was taught to remember CIVIL for power factor shenanigans. 
If the circuit is Capacitive then I leads V
If the circuit is Inductive (L) then V leads I

How does the efficiency loss of a PFC compare to the efficiency loss of a transmission medium typically with say 0.5PF?

Can you do ceramic PZT's? Or ultrasonic drivers?

Great video Scott! 
I have a dummy question. When you show us the shapes of the voltage and current on the scope, you say that peaks are not matching (not same amplitude). But these are two different physical asset. How you compare the amplitudes of these two?

Now if there was a way to add this to the mains input of one’s home……….
We use large 50amp 13.8 volt Dc switching supplies to power most of the 12 volt items in the home and shop instead of having a bunch of wall warts sucking power 24/7. They are still more efficient than linear transformer based supplies where the transformer also has its parasitic draw of an average of 50 watts.
One should if they can, install a 12 volt solar system in their homes to power all of these small appliances ( phone chargers, power supplies for routers and modems ). This will eliminate these constant loads which add up over time.

...or you could just buy power supplies that have pfc. 😂 Nice video anyhow 😊

ELI the ICEman.

I noticed at 09:48 the scope appears to show the current leading the voltage by a small amount, is this the best performance active PFC can provide or would a more complex design take us closer to perfection? I enjoy your content, thank you.

Interesting. I guess that each poor PF device in your home (eg mains led lights) are synced to the 50hz mains so exacerbating the issue.  Maybe we should be moving towards low-voltage housing circuits with one high quality ~1PF power supply. Is that something that will happen?

Doesn´t a voltage rectifier do the same thing?

On another topic, I didn't want to believe my headphones @ 0:44 . . . 🤣

Yeah, nice video but in the future power distribution will be doing using DC instead of AC so...

There is a trend within construction to use LED strips as "rope lights". Problem is that most are illegal. This is because most are made to be cheap and has the exact problem as described in the video. This leads to unbalanced loads to the power grid and as many construction sites never turns the light off and each reel are rated at 200-500 W each, the amounts of wasted power and stress introduced to the power grid is quite large.

I run all of my LED from a battery connected to a battery charger

How do you know if a power supply that you buy has an active PFC

If we go to DC like Ediason proposed long time ago , we'd never need that :D
In transformer substations , we can now use modern DC to DC conversions systems ant that's it ... Cheerz

Can you do video about new arduino giga r1? I think it would be interesting video. Thanks anyways.

It would be worth mentioning that this doesn't work with directly connected transformers.

These should just be part of every breaker box or main inlet

Ironically that exact model of heat gun failed on me after just 2 months/half a dozen uses 🤷

What is his first language? The accent is very interesting in a good way.

I wonder if most power inverters use a PFC...?

Time we got USB wall sockets an just get DC in the homes for the machines that could use it the most.

The real problem is lack of philosophy and goodwill in producers and lack of vision with lawmakers.

So you need this in every device or can a larger one near there load center handle all kinds of irregularities?

NASA offered a design for a PFC some 30+  years ago. I built a few and at the time they made no noticeable difference to my electric bill. Wish I'd kept at least one and the schematic.

Fyi, the quick way to spot a power supply with active PFC is to look at the rated input voltage and frequency.  If the converter supports all the common AC voltages and frequencies it has an active PFC front end.  I.e. ratings like 90-270Vac and 50-60Hz.  Another fun side effect of active PFC is that the power supply will often work fine on high voltage DC or 400Hz aircraft power.  Some manufacturers will even provide ratings for DC and 400Hz use so you are still in spec.

Can you get one of these to put on your fuse panel in your house or your small business? And would it work the same? I have a surge protector on it now.

in the nutshell, does PFC lowering power demand (calculated via house watt meter device installed by power provider to charge money from clients) or its does only "line hygiene" by not spitting-out parasitic harmonics back into the grid?

PFCs come pre-installed in electrical panels.

we need mo powAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!

Stabilo for the love of God, sponsor him!!!!!!!

Except that residential customers aren't charged for Power Factor.

It is interesting that this video is saying almost exactly the same things that were being said a quarter of a century ago. 
That was back when I first undertook the design of a 1kW switcher for a highly specialized purpose and used the Untrode UC3854 for PFC. The 3854 performed really well but the development was pretty painful. There were no development boards around. Just procuring things like inductor cores (I used "Kool Mu", which was pretty new at the time) and high-performance capacitors was a whole lot more complicated and time consuming than it is now. (If I were doing the design now I'd probably go with a PFC stage that used two interleaved converters. They have some significant advantages in situations were high performance and very long service life are necessary.)

One "trick" of active PFC is that the instantaneous input current must be made to be directly proportional to the instantaneous input voltage while the average input current must be made inversely proportional to the input voltage.

Hey, what an awesome project. I'll go a little bit out of context here. Can someone explain to me how do i get PWM output on 74hc595 shift register?. I wish i can do it without existing library out there, and make it my own😢😢.

why do we call it theory when it is in fact the practice of maths that defines our expections

It looks like the beer analogy is used worldwide.

Could a active full bridge rectifier be just as good, with the pfc..?

No they shouldn't. There is a lot more to it than what is explained in this video. 
If you want to have a good Power Factor, buy well designed power supplies. As a bonus they are more efficient so you save money as well.
The video is not technically wrong but it's a band aid solution when you have no other choice.

Many devices (mainly flyback converters) natively work on a wide range of voltages so a wide input does not always indicate active PFC.

It is. I mean most people understand that.

Good technical article, to get CE accreditation most products have to apply these techniques, without,  the harmonics are awful.

What if I just run EVERYTHING though dedicated UPSs (imagines a house made of batteries)..??

Anyway to make it faster easier cheaper and universal?

The nothing blew up jokes are awesome 😂

Anyone know of an active PFC for 120vac to 180vdc that can handle 1000w

Rs exist. Enunciate them.

Or run stuff off batteries :)

Where can I buy your t-shirt
The black one with the white electronic circuitry ?

They should just make the entire grid DC. I'm sure we have the technology to create electronic DC substations.

Thanks a lot!
But how do I decide if a PSU that I want to buy has an active PFC? (And by "I" I mean me, as a nonelectronic person)

ncp ic sir

这就是真正的省电器

Here in the Netherlands cos phi should be better than 0.95.

What can you say about the gan chargers? Do they have good efficiency?

Modern PC power supply is the future of power supply in electrodomestics?

I'm just wondering what is the efficiency of the active pfc?

I look prices for power adapters with active PFC.. And looks like now it is no point to buy, no profit.

which oscilloscope model is that? is the harmonic over the IEC standard comparison an included featurek or it is sold separately? thanks

where can we get that Power eff board with display you use here? with the fan on.

My utility provider only charges for KWh, not KVA, so actually having a bad power factor doesn’t cost me any extra.  However, when I run my devices from my offgrid solar inverter I notice the extra current which bad power factor causes, so the power factor correct stuff will be quite useful in this scenario. Thanks for the video 👍

Go to my channel and click on the about tab. Scroll down and there is a merch link.

 @greatscottlab  Sold👌👍

In todays world, for residential use, one doesn't pay for kVA. BUT  we are still drawing unwanted excessive current that's not contributing to any useful work from concerned appliances..
But our electric lines( in the house)
may be experiencing voltage clipping/ sag etc. besides running unduly hot..also the reason the circuit breaker often trips or fuses blow.......
So time & money is spent attending to these.

In the UK SMart meters are able to measure VA, we're not charged based on this just yet, I suspect we won't until there is sufficient saturation of smart meters, once that happens expect us to start being charged based on AP.... 😢😢

Cheap PFC power supply is PC power supply. Most of quality ones have onboard PFC circuit.

You mean a PSU with Active PFC not passive?

44 seconds - letting the brown smoke out of the circuits?

Sir 🤔 do you know how to fix a cassette tape where the sound of the tape hums when played, then the sound is not there, and the motor rotates normally, if that's what component should be replaced 🤔??? I'm confused ?🤔

Everyone correct their PF
vs.
Just one correct the PF

It's also worth mentioning, that the Active PFC circuit does correct the PF by activating the mosfet in such a way that it draws current in repetitive peaks, that on average looks like a sinusoidal current on phase with the input AC voltage.
The folllowing video talks about it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBQn6xpto6M

the signal with the PFC looked so noisy, what could have caused that ? Is it bad for the appliances ?

NICE even though nothing blow UP XD, thanks

Why a boost converter for 400v then a buck system to get 12v.

Can we not make a SMPS which works with unfiltered halfwave DC?...like the PFC ckt do

Power factor is important as i tested an old air conditioner and the power factor got better when i was spraying the outside evaporater with water? Im assuming it lowered the load of drawing the heat away? Any reply appreciated cheers from Australia 👍

Interesting and nice. I think i understand powerfactor now, didnt in the past...
Oh and you have to do a colab with mehdi / eletcroboom :-) That would be gold.

I understand how PFC is essential in industrial situations,to lower their energy bills.For domestic users,like me,with the old rotating disc electricity meters,we're charged on the basis of real power.Are smart metered domestic users charged on the basis of apparent power?

I was taught that a PF of 1 was not ideal due to the resonance that occurs, can i get some conceptual help here?

Does this mean, that when I get a modern power meter installed that can't "run backwards" that I get charged more power than what I actually use?

I want to make key finder can anyone help me;
Connect by Bluetooth  then when it lost connection with my phone it trigger buzzer. (Bluetooth break alarm circuit).

hi scott
    I have a question. Can you make a detailed video on Home Assistant that shows how to control switches from an ESP8266 with 4 relays and 4 manual switches? I have been searching online but have not found a good tutorial. Could you help me with this, please?

Power Factor Correction is something that I would do as an instrumentation and controls engineering technician. We do this on industrial motors all the time because when you're motor is consuming 250 KW to run, getting the power factor dialed in becomes a matter of saving thousands of dollars an day.

Had always just assumed that, since power factor correction is such an easy thing to do that the companies manufacturing power tranfsormers for home electronics would have just done it in the first place since you only need to get a capacitor and place it in parallel with the primary on the transformer....

You don't need complex electronics to tune a transformer...

Also, working with mains voltage IS DANGEROUS however, "being a professional" is absolutely not a necessity. Here in Canada, as long as you follow the code and get inspected, you can wire up the entirety of you own house and do electrical maintenance on your own property.

Me before the video starts:




Power Factor Correction

Sir Scot can I apply it (The PFC) on Lithium Battery Charger? Cuz I'm doing research on improvement PF in Battery Swapping Station

Could you please tell me where to purchase the tool you have at time line 5:50 Thanks!

how does the pfc go with rfi .. would it be better in the shak

this is for lab only
why not have this connected to all light switches through an inverter to ac. how much more is that now?
then all walk outlets. how much the Pfc cost for 5kW? or a 3 phase house installation?
Would all the ac-dc-ac-dc conversion losses pay off or would i choose to pay for my dirty loads instead?

I have a vintage thermal printer that requires 5v and -24v, and I'd like to see a video going over the correct way to create negative voltages without giving a large DC offset. as I'm looking to connect this to my modern desktop.

...does it stop electronic harrassment? cuz that would be great..

What is that amazing wire end crimper gizmo at 7:59 and what brand is the wire stripper?

Old energy meters measure only ACTIVE power. PFC correction is already included in Kwh price calculation.

A power factor correction is only needed if your loads are inductive and most importantly if in large amount like large motors.  Small devices such as LED lights consume the least amount of power. Then most of these device are fed  with lower voltage thus making it more efficient. And the power supply of these LED devices are a switch mode type which play a big role in power consumption.  a switch mode  supplies nowadays have an efficiency greater than 95 percent. And looking at the oscilloscope display where the led devices are used, the trace almost correspond to almost unity power factor meaning that the load is resistive like your heat gun( neglecting the motor blower inside the heatgun). Another thing is,  Refrigerators and air conditioning equipment today have inverters or variable frequency drives built-in  to minimize the consumption of the equipment. Variable speed drives will have almost unity power factor since the line side of the device as seen from the power source is resistive. So installing such power factor correction is useless when your total load is low and only LED lights to consider.

So when LED lights in a dimmer flicker and/or hum in normal light socket would a pfc fix this???? Or is that just AC causing the issue or the switch?

You are wrong, many LED drivers use buck or similar converters to current output. Basically more expensive models use dedicated DC-DC or 2-channel DC-DC converters to convert variable input voltage to transformer current, and it should be mentioned instead of PFC.

Why would anyone intelligent drive LEDs with AC?

If you do the same in the mobile charger, will its ops value increase in current value?

6:18 0 - what program you used here to simulate harmonics that add up to make the input shape? thanks!

Or, a dedicated DC circuit could be implemented (with some amount of battery backup at the switchboard) then only the main AC-DC converter needs PFC.

 -- if DC loads were just operated off DC, efficiency  improves (and a typical home's DC service could be off-gridded without any problem.)

I have been positing using Solar MPPT Charge controllers as low cost high power, AC-DC  agnostic, battery bank chargers  ie, high power AC-DC Li-Ion or variable output supplies (nominal 12/24/48VDC)  are "specialist" and fairly expensiive, while 100A MPPT Charge controllers  are readily available - feed them off Solar/Wind DC (50-400V), OR the output of a 400V 2-5kW AC-DC converter - one is a step closer to storm proof, Auto PFC is a (grid) side benefit..

Power factor IMPROVEMENT.  The cost for power factor correction is exponential. Power factor IMPROVEMENT will also depend on leading or lagging voltage/current phase.

What's that fart at 0:44

Hi 
I have been aware of PFC for capacitive and inductive loads for a long time, it would seem to me that the problem is switch mode supplies I don't remember a problem with old time linear supplies. Is that right

PFC has been around for decades, you seem to imply that it is some brand new technology.  It is not the be-all-end-all, it has some serious disadvantages.  I used to work in industrial electronics, and PFC's do not handle noise or brownouts well, we would never use them in a less than perfect supply situation such as a generator or factory floor power because they would always shut down or misbehave in some fatal way.

And what does happen to the difference of apparent power and real power? Is that energy just released as waste heat?

Total novice here...and probably a dumb questions but, how can we recoup the non-reactive energy and potentially 'recycle' it ourselves...or even store it? Thanks

Can i use this for my Bad Inverter? To get sinus?

Already did a video about negative voltages.

Yup, great video but that stripper really caught my eye. Anyone know?

 @rbyt2010 still wondering about the enigmatic crimp tool , I think it’s Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

It's an inefficiency in the utility's business model to only bill you for active power.  Poor power factor contributes to increased operating expenses of the grid, that are not reflected in the real power your utility measures.  Displacement power is easy to correct for, since you can simply add the opposite circuit element from the problem type of power factor.  Distortion power is much more difficult to correct for, at the utility scale.

It's common that larger customers are billed for power factor and/or reactive power, while for residential customers, it is difficult to justify the expense of upgrading the meter.  That said, it's only a matter of time until there is enough saturation of non-linear loads for it to become a problem that they eventually have to start reflecting in billing, as a motive to the consumer solve the problem.

Why ppl are still mentioning LED here? It's like homes and officess are consisted only from LEDs. I didn't see a washing machine, vacuum cleaner, PC, TVs,... being powered by LED sources...

Not as heat generally. The generator/grid just adjusts itself to deliver the non perfect waveform albeit not quite as efficiently. But there is some extra heat in that the delivered current is now say 50% higher and due to normal losses in the grid that means that say 50 % times 2% losses = 1% extra is lost as heat. I guess it's the substation transformers that are most at risk as a significantly non unity PF in one local area can destroy them due to the extra current delivered.

Does it save electricity bill?

Reactive power cannot be consumed - reactive power only flows through the devices, the only reactive power remnant is Joule heat I²R in the wires. Most of the home current smart meters count only the flow of capacitive reactive power, the simplest solution to this problem is to use a simple choke at the input.

Power factor is something most people don't worry about because power companies don't bother residential customers about it.  Business customers are scrutinized, and they are penalized if they can't keep the PF above 0.75, or in some places, 0.90, but that's usually only a concern for the building manager.  Historically, business customers had equipment with electric motors (basically inductors) that lowered the PF, while residential customers had mostly resistive lighting and heating with a few motors that turned on periodically (refrigerator, AC, washing machines, etc.).  However, resistive lighting and heating has almost disappeared, replaced by LEDs and heat pumps, and now almost everything we use has an electronic power supply, full of capacitors and inductors.  I don't know what my home's PF is, and the electronic electricity meter that replaced the old analog one doesn't say, but I wouldn't be surprised if that changed.  After all, if power companies switch to time-of-use pricing to reduce maximum demand, they're going to be interested in raising a customers PF for the same reason.
   What really bugs me are LED light bulbs.  The whole point of LED light bulbs is to reduce electricity usage, but manufacturers aren't letting that happen.  Only one watt is needed to produce 200 lumens, but most of the light bulbs I've tested (in the US) get 100 lumens/watt at best.  The excess is turned into heat.  I've measured surface temperatures of over 200 deg F/90 deg C on many bulbs, and the only reason for making them get that hot is to keep the bulb from lasting for a long time.  Heat is the enemy of electronics, but LEDs are cold devices, and especially sensitive to too much heat.  On top of that, most LED light bulbs have a PF of around 0.5, which means the power company has to generate 2 watts for every watt used by the bulb; the extra watt is turned into heat in the power lines.  In extreme cases, this extra heat causes power lines to sag an unsafe amount.  To sum it up, most LED light bulbs, which we use to minimize power usage and reduce global warming, USE 4 TIMES THE ELECTRICITY THAT THEY NEED.  And while most bulbs are less than 20 watts, and used for only a few hours a day in homes, there are millions of them on at any given time.  It adds up.   (I understand the EU has implemented or is implementing requirements that LED light bulbs get 200 lumens/watt.)

A lot of “powah”

Most residential electricity meters charge you based on real energy consumption (kilowatt-hours, kWh), not the apparent power or the power factor.

My worst offender is a 1W LED bulb with a PF of 0.1...  total power is small enough to ignore but it's still ridiculous.

What is the biggest “bad Power Factor” sink on the grid right now? What will it be in the future if we don’t fix it with PFCs?

What about a DIY cheaper option rather then buying an expensive dev board?

A way more efficient solution is that the DC power supply gets rid of the Full Bridge Rectifier (Shoutout to @ElectroBOOM) and it's large capacitor and use a flyback convertor with the same principle as the PFC. Then you have everything combined into 1 more simple and efficient circuit (basically a PFC that outputs directly the desired DC voltage instead of 400v and is isolated of course).

However, the question on my mind now is: Should all devices contain active PFC, or should we have something like one or more such PFC adapters, in a convenient housing and with multiple sockets to connect to it all small devices like chargers, routers, media players, LED lights? This could be the mystical energy saver that you plug between the mains socket and your device and it magically saves energy! Can you connect several devices with bad power supplies to one adapter? What happens if a device with built in active PFC is connected to a PFC adapter? Can one huge PFC be built into the main power circuits in a flat or a house?

I understand only trainstation ...

Too bad you didn't dare to go for "this light bulb is pure perfection" over the LED strip, because that would have been even closer to the pure ohmic load than a some heating wires and an inductive load of a fan (motor). :p

Can a PFC power supply be powered by 300V DC?

i'm not an electronic expert but after watching this video i know i should buy PFC. but what is benefit of using this?? (for people like me, lack of electronic skill/ knowledge).

The heat gun looks as if it's using a triac to control the heat. Turn the heat down, the waveform will look increasingly horrible.

We don’t get charged for apparent power right?

Hi!

0:43 Someone just fart?? Lol

What's the benefit with adding this?

Big Clive should link to this video every time I mentions the horrible power factor of some of this Chinese LEDs.

That approach is often used on LED drivers but doesn't work with general purpose power supplies. The big problem is output voltage has significant ripple. You can reduce (but not eliminate) this by using large output capacitors. To fully eliminate this ripple you need an additional DC-DC on the output but then you're back to having two converters. Worse yet that arrangement is much less efficient than a 400v PFC followed by the isolated converter.

I want to know too. It worked out?

Single phase PFC! Yes please. Are we looking at a reduction in RFI from the loads or is the active PFC going to emit RFI too? Would like to see some EMC tests on these. Whatever, it is definitely a move forward to clean up the grid. Thanks for posting.

:o

Does the pfc circuit require additional power? or if it does I guess the overall power draw is still less with the correction, right?

Mr Scott long time ago I have requested you regarding the op amp, that is there is propagation delay in inverting and non inverting terminals of op amp,did you notice that? That is a concern for those who did in deep in electronic like you.please have a look and you will remember me. Thanks

How do you calculate reactive power, when the cause is distortion rather than displacement?  I know how it works with displacement power factor and the power triangle, but how do you adapt it for distortion?

I know real power P = 1/(2*pi*T) * integral V(t)*I(t) dt from 0 to T
And S = Vrms * Irms

But what is the formula for Q, when V(t) and I(t) aren't both simple sine waves?

During the outro, what is the PCB are you using, running power from the supply into it's terminals with the Cooler Master CPU fan running on it, and what looks like and LCD display? I've spent two hours trying to identify it. It's low-key driving me crazy.

How much noise do these devices add to the HF spectrum? Looks messy on the scope

I thought PFC is built in for decades in multiple devices.

I get this is better for the grid but i missed power consumption of the pfc itself. Does it have more or less conversion losses compared to passive pfc options?

I still don't get why the power factor was so bad for that switching power supply.  Yes the power harmonics that make the Fourier series are out of phase with the voltage, but they cancel out, which means that there is no change in current.  

For example a 0 amp is technically any amount of current 180deg out of phase with each other, but you don't experience any power flow because they cancel out, so how do the cancelling harmonics should not contribute to any power, reactive or used.

The heat gun has a PFC circuit?? The heating element is a coil, no inductance??

Wondering how much inefficiency is due to circuits designed for 60hz operating on 50hz grids... 🤔

how do i set freq

AC to DC power supplies and prismatic lithium batteries need to be standardized!!!! XT60 connectors on EVERYTHING please!

It begs the question: Is it possible to construct an anti-PFC, i.e. a circuit that maximizes reactive effect? For a sine wave, the current would be 90 degrees out of phase.

Can I reduce that 400V DC to 320V DC....if so then how?

Have you try making computer out of chips like Ben Eater do? That would be interesting :)

Ok , but how come the Power supply didn't get fried with an input of 400V ? !

Also mauser is in India too

What affect does this PF use have on power metering equipment and what you pay?

Active PFC circuits can be very difficult in terms of managing conducted EMI/RFI. You are basically chopping the rectified AC input at a frequency that could be anywhere from a few tens of kHz to a few hundred kHz. In the interest of efficiency the rise and fall times are very short, so there is lots of high frequency content. Some PFC controllers operate at fixed frequency, others at variable frequency. I used to do designs using a controller that I ran at 100 kHz, which at the time was a reasonable compromise when FETs, rectifiers, inductor cores and inductor windings were considered (I often say that in switchers everything is in conflict with everything else).
Filtering ahead of the rectifier will certainly require a reasonbly "large" common mode inductor and some normal mode inductance might be necessary, too. I've seen designs using two common mode inductors.

Radiated EMI/RFI is always a concern in any switecher. Circuit layout needs to be carefully considered.

I noted that at some point in the video there was a huge amount of "fur" on the waveform shown on the oscilloscope.

 @D614G_aka_Doug  Thank you. I saw the hairy caterpillar too and it made me think. It does make me wonder how much noise the radio spectrum can take before it all turns into mush! So much energy transmitted across the bands these days. Forget noise cancelling headphones. I want EMI cancelling underpants! Cheers.

Maybe one day ;-)

So the power on the non peak side of the sine wave oscillates back and forth infinitely with the power grid causing it to heat the wires? Wouldn’t that just cause there to be strain on the top peak of the sign wave? Am I lacking knowledge on how power generation works? I figured that the generators in the power plant would only be strained in the top half of the sign wave in that case? I guess the generators need to maintain a constant load so the only way to deal with that peak current draw would to be to add more power to the grid. Assuming my logic makes any sense then the lower portion of the sign wave would be less strenuous on the generator as you would add extra. That sounds like a headache for power companies. Hope I’m getting this right if someone notices I am dumb tell me.

Is there any way to do the opposite of this? My power company has been upping the prices of electricity crazy amounts recently (and I don't think the price of wind has gone up either) best idea I've had to give them the middle finger is to run a large induction motor with no load 24/7 but that still uses some real power.
A power factor as close to 0 would be desirable.

only if youre being ripped off by paying for apparent/reactive power...our grid in australia only measures real power..apparent power is only measured in industrial uses...

How much power did the PFC board pull from the low voltage side?

What do you exactly want to say with this. Do you mean that the LED lightstrip consumes more power than it should?

Sir i have subscribed your channel so plz guide me through

can we still not do better than like .95 PF ?

I have always thought of it as a misnomer to call this "power factor correction" when it is actually correcting non-linear current usage. This is of course very different than correcting the phase shift due to traditional inductive loads.

😁

Nice video as always :) Also, could you make a DIY or BUY video about ultrasonic cleaner? Nothing fancy or big, just a small simple tub like those for jewlery.

What was that sound at 0:44? 🤔

Just run the LED lights with a DC battery

Why can’t an arrange of capacitors do the trick? Genuine question, I’m only a hobbyist

The example with burning wires is inaccurate - no matter how bad the power factor of the power supply is, the temperature of the wire connected to the power grid will only slightly differ from the power supply with a power factor of 1. This is because the heating of the wire does not occur instantly with increasing current, and poor power factor is smoothed out by thermal inertia. On the other hand, large power supplies without power factor correction can affect other power consumers in the circuit and increase the power requirements of transformers in substations.

But will it fix the RFI nightmare?

How can you say "Full Bridge Rectifier" without shaking the screen ?!!? :)

In an ideal world shouldn't we put PFCs at the "entrance" of every house, with DC current instead of AC on the electrical outlet... ? which would require to have only DC compliant devices.

Interesting factoid about PFC: in the past, unscrupulous people used to tamper with their inductive loads, such as washing machines, pumps, and other motors and REMOVE the PFC capacitor in order to steal part of the electricity from the power company!
This is because power companies used to measure their customers' energy consumption using electromechanical meters, old devices containing a big spinning wheel that would complete a revolution after a known amount of energy was delivered to the customer, plus an odometer to count the wheel's revolutions.
One problem with those electromechanical meters (that has since been solved with digital energy meters) is that they would only measure the current delivered IN PHASE with the voltage. Large inductive loads, such as motors, were (and still are) required by law to be sold with a suitable capacitor as a passive PFC. But if one removed the capacitor, a good part of that load would become undetectable by the energy meter!
This is of course illegal and detrimental to the power grid, so nobody should attempt to do it, except in a laboratory condition.

If utility's don't meter and bill you for reactive power it's a domestic consumers heaven, take it while you can. I've often wondered if you could build a capacitive or inductive space heater, to take advantage of this.

One key point that seemed overlooked - Home users are not charged on apparent power, they're charged on real power. So this isn't going to lower your power bill, only give the grid more headroom. And a small power supply like that is literally going to have no effect on the grid on its own. Only when regulation comes in and every device needs to comply, then there will be a measurable difference. So I wouldn't be rushing out for expensive power factor corrected power supplies any time soon.

Commercial buildings are metered differently, and they do have to think about apparent power. But they just install a correction for their whole shop/office/workshop etc. Not individual correction units on every tiny power supply.

he is measuring real over apparent power though. That is the definition of power factor

If you design an ultrasonic driver, you keep the transducer voltage and current 90° out of phase automatically as the resonant frequency changes with water level and contents. It works really well once you get it right. No cpu. Just a 555, 4013 shift register and 4066 as a phase sensitive detector, controlling the frequency tuning pin 5 on the 555. It requires a current transformer. Good luck.

 @neilw2O  Thanks. Sounds minimalistic as it should be.

😊

I'm in UK. There was a scare that smart meters were going to charge for reactive power.  I think they measure it, and we might be charged in the future.  In Italy the domestic meters have the usual led flash every 1Wh, and they have a 2nd led flashing for reactive power.

Wie sieht es denn mit Funkstörungen dieser Module aus?

I like the way you say "powAR" On the next video can you give me a couple "Pew-Pew's" that'd be great!

What is the PF of the PFC itself?

Why not measure the PF of that pfc circuit itself 😅

Does not address harmonics created by switched mode power supplies...

Are there any devices that can be installed after the power counter to counteract this effect?
I guess it's something that it's better to address on each single device, but it would be cheaper to add a single "PFC" to the whole house instead many.

I read in the comments that european standards require that already, but it probably depends on the manufacturing date and provenience of the device (I bet cheap LED bulbs are not using any PFC).

I just realized that a power meter installed on my main powerline is showing the power factor, which is now at 0.57, very bad.

Since 2001 (or 2008, too lazy to find exact year) the EU requires switch mode power supply over 75W to have a PFC  according to norm EN61000-3-2. Since nowadays we mostly use those kind of power supply, it is already not too bad for household appliances. 

And for factory's, in Canada, for medium size you should keep it over 90% and for big size it is 95%. The electricity bill is calculated with a penalty if you don't respect it.

0:43

What?! You mean there's a flaw with the (read the following in a booming voice) FULL BRIDGE RECTIFIER!?!

Very cool. Maybe, I missed it, but how much loss does the PFC unit itself introduce?

Driving along the back roads, far away from anyone, you might sometimes see a bank of three 'Transformers' up on a pole. No houses, no building, no lower voltage wiring. They're not feeding anyone with lower voltage. They might be grid scale series inductors (?), as that's exactly how they seem to be wired, just in and out on the other side (i.e. in series with the higher 'medium' voltage).

while all of this is true, it's worth adding that for residential customers, you are billed for real energy, not time-integrated apparent power, so none of this will actually affect your bill.

So that's probably why my servers their power supplies buzz, when running from my square wave UPS...
Now my question, how bad is it for the power supply and servers? Could it lead to any damage?

PS: 
- The UPS is an APC, with the manufacturer code "BR1200G-FR"
- Both servers have a corsair psu, a "TX-M Series TX550M V2" and a "TX-M Series TX650M V2" 
- The whole system draws about 150 watts, or that's what I read from the UPS...
- Civilized 240V @ 50Hz country here :-)

did u connect 400VCD to a 230V adapter?

Why did you remove the rectifier?

8:56 Now look at all that hash it is inserting into your mains power lines, also not good

Reactive power is required for AC motor loads - but we shouldn't be providing reactive power to the utility from our homes.

in my country we don't care about the electricity company, we use PFC to maximize our MCB which most houses here are 6-10A

I just want to clarify for at least US viewers that most residential consumers do not pay for their apparent power consumption, only active power (kWh and demand charge in kW) consumption. Industrial consumers have different tiered electricity costs (depending if they are a "medium" or "large" power consumer) in which they are either charged with their active or apparent power depending on their power factor (for example, if they have a power factor of less than 0.9, then the utility would use their apparent power consumption to calculate their billing demand and/or total power consumption). Now if there is going to be stricter regulation on poor power factor (like limit on current harmonics in the video) for consumer products, that's on the manufacturers to ensure there is some sort of power factor correction on either the device or power supplies, not so much on the residential consumer to need to actively seek out power factor correction circuits.

Scrolling through comments based on Fart...,:)(:  PFC ( Powerful Fart Creator)

A decent active PFC stage 20 years ago would run at around 95% efficiency, depending on the input voltage. When a large boost, such as from 85 volts AC input (the usual lower limit for a "universal input" PFC stage) is required, efficiency drops a few percent. With newer FETs and high-voltage ultrafast recovery rectifiers some improvement could be expected. If cost is no object, some additional improvement can come from using very high performance core material (e.g. molybdenum permalloy powder) for the boost inductor and winding with Litz wire instead of ordinary magnet wire.

If they're in series with the load they're probably not correction inductors. My best guess would be reclosers (basically smarter circuit breakers). A second possibility is voltage regulators.

I have worked on some Dell servers that allow the PFC to be enabled or disabled in the BIOS. So even in some commercial environments, PFC doesn't net an overall advantage. And until residential charges for power factor somehow (e.g. a peak time VA demand charge), PFC would largely remain a scam for home users.

I thought the house power meter is ignoring the reactive power so it is essentially free. Isn't it so ? If true, correcting phase shift is contraproductive for a consumer

0:44

0:44

Huge problem is really huge at 10kW or more. Less power, not so important.

Is another term for some of this "dirty electricity"?
Does a PFC circuit remove this problem?

are you Steve scott

For normal home owners its kind of pointless at the moment as you are charged real power not apparent power, if that ever changes PFC is going to become very popular very quickly :D

Power factor may be or may be not correlated with reactive power. PPFC and APFC design to correct form of feeding current, not the reactive power at all.

The LED example means, TRIAC controllers also ruin the Power factor? Because the current isn't sinusoidal with them too.

the problem with PFC-enabled devices is that they don’t properly trigger UPS if mains power goes down. I bought an awesome server power supply from HP to power my 3D printer and later found out it is “invisible” to my cheap APC UPS :(

Great video. It is like you said in that power companies have to use larger wires and higher currents. The misconception some people have is that the power company has to create more energy, and that is not the case, as only true power is consumed.

Most residential accounts are not billed extra for power factor as they are just charged for kilo-watt hours (true-power), while industrial accounts are penalized for going out of tolerance. The tolerance varies from 0.9 to 0.95 efficient.

Active power factor correction is very common in industrial devices. The grid also has power factor correction circuits at sub stations to bring the voltage in current in phase to account for poor factor at the end user.

okay.... didnt know about the current harmonics seem like a big deal idk how but cool cool seems somthing college would tell yea ,,, yup nope had to learn it from youtube, but yea how many devices using old tech and have a horrible power factor and still pluged into the grid just using power without actually being used ,reason why we have energy wave stickers for appliances now

So the PFC only works for loads that convert their voltage to dc anyway. When want to power a "drehstrom asynchrom motor" you have to use a frequencyconverter and a pfc

Is it possible to make a PFC circuit with a regular boost converter IC (like UC3842/43), theoretically the duty cycle would by large at lower voltages of the sine wave and lower near the top of the sine wave...

8:59  I cannot but wonder why that current is so dirty with noise, the noise is much higher than the current itself. Have we not enough switching noise around ?

Speaking of those Sharkteeth and their harmonic contents:
I set an AliExpress Voltage Controller (essentially a bigger Light-Dimmer) to 110V, then stepped it up with an ordinary transformer to 230V RMS and boldly fed it into the AC inlet of an ATX Power Supply.
Seconds later, both 470uF input storage capacitors of the ATX spectacularly blew their lids. Try it yourself with that spare ATX Supply of yours. 🤗
It was the first truly blindly executed murder in all my years of preventing major disasters in that German Oil Refinery, where I was employed largely not to blow anything up. 😓
Kind of like a Russian Nuclear Tech might be employed not to cause a China Syndrome and thus bring AliExpress to its knees. 😧

old server psu 80+ bronze for leds, more easy D:

"don't work with mains unless you are professional" 

Goes onto pronounce Full Bridge Rectifier incorrectly

Could you do a similar video for charging an EV automobile?

Is calling it "Real" power a German thing? I'm more familiar with it being called Active power in equipment.

For a consumer who is only concerned about paying less. Yes. But that might change in the future.

That's true for smaller loads. For larger loads it still matters because it limits how much power you can use on a given circuit. For something like an EV charger which uses the entire capacity of the circuit it's most apparent (pun intended) because PF is directly rated to how fast you can charge.

Yep. They do decrease the power factor as well.

 @greatscottlab  Thanks! I never thought about like this (harmonics). Very informative.

Sucks to hear that.

I didn’t check it thoughly; maybe it was just a beefy PSU (200A) with a small load (maintaining a heated bed’s temperature). Or my cheap APC UPS is just dumb.

The power company does need to generate more electricity when there are low power factors. Not directly from loads but from increased transmission losses.

The power company employs power factor correction so the apparent power generated is lower than the apparent power in the field. 

However I agree with your reply, as the reactive current down the line will flow through resistors and drop voltage, and that leads to heat loss. 

These losses are not as significant for most residential users, as we are not billed for them. For industries with large power consumption it is a different story.

The take away is just because you run high apparent power at your house, it does not mean the power company has to generate the same apparent power. They leverage power factor correction at sub stations and at the main plant.

Frequency converters is the way to go nowadays. Before you just added motor-capacitors to balance the PF at the operational load, which work well if you have an even load.

It is a bit more complicated than that.

Maybe I do not have enough understanding of why this noise appears, but the next day I saw the latest video from FesZ, and at 6:10 he shows how to limit noise on the scope measuring power supply's: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzhEt3t5VXw

Sure. I will probably get to that one day.

That PFC board is pretty close to an EV charger. About the only stuff you need to add to make it one is lower the current limit to a point that the circuit can withstand indefinitely and add logic to handle the charge termination.

huh, very cool... but why 400VDC in specific? 
i should probably check out the datasheet then.

So Edison was right after all. We should better use DC, no problems with phase shifts and all that stuff.

I feel like it wasn't clearly pointed out... The relation between real power,apparent power, reactive power and phase shift holds true only when voltage AND current are both perfectly sinusoidal. With rectifiers, the current is not sinusoidal, and the reason for the difference in apparent and real power is not (just) phase shift, but rather the mere presence of harmonics (they contribute to apparent power regardless of their phase shifts, only the phase shift of the fundamental needs to be considered). Also, the term "reactive power" is meaningless in this case.

0:42 feeling a little gassy?

The fastest way for this to be implemented is to allow the power utilities to change the real power meter to an apparent power meter. IF the power factor drops below 0.9,  then the utility company will charge you extra.

Did I hear a fart @0:44? (-:

So, is this the basic description of AC power versus DC? Didn't Tesla and Edison already hash this out? Or are you pointing out newer technologies that allow efficiencies to be nearly the same?

Fourier series

As a future project, could you make an inverter that corrects square sine wave power produced by a standard gas generator and creates pure sine wave?  I'm thinking of something you could plug in to your wall on a specific circuit that creates clean power on that circuit for sensitive electronics for a load of up to 2000 watts.  Seems to me silly to have to buy a pure sine wave generator when sometimes all you need to do is clean up the power for a single circuit.  This would allow the purchase of a cheap generator, but still get clean power where you need it.
Thanks

Im kinda curious to all your tools i noticed a weird ferrule crimper for the mainz cable.

Do you have a video showing your tools?

How much does reactive power from consumer use compare with commercial/industrial use?

Is that actually worthy to have PFC at home? Last year mehdi debunked PFC only worth for industry not home

I can light LEDs with half a volt from a single battery cell using a joule thief.

0:44 wtf is that fart

What wire stripper and wire winder are you using? Never seen a wire winder before. A nice tool.

Why does the voltage output have to be boosted to 400 volts? Couldn't that output stage just be a buck converter and then give a lower DC voltage, still with the PFC function? 

From what I understand, a lot of newer power supplies have built in PFC. With the main expedient in creating that is to place the reservoir capacitor after the chopper device, rather than before as with traditional designs, with the PWM cycle adjusted accordingly.

Does anyone know the ferrule crimper used in this video?

I don't know if "writing" you that will make any difference since you already spelled it right in the video but you pronounced it sinusodial, it's actually sinusoidal  with the i before the d.

How about we switch to HVDC and leave AC only for industrial 3-phase motors? Imagine the PSU simplifications and RF pollution reduction it would bring.

Novice question: why do reactive and apparent power use VA as their unit of measurement and Real power uses W?

I think I know why (but haven't actually confirmed this). The circuit is a boost converter so the output voltage needs to be higher than the input voltage. 240 volts AC peaks at 340 volts and 400 is a bit higher to provide a margin of error.

In EU anything above 75W must have a PF of 0.9 or better or you are not allowed to sell it. EN/IEC 61000-3-2. Almost there 😊

Maybe.....Wasn't me.

That device is called an on-line UPS. About $600+ for 3000VA. 
All alternators produce sine wave (also called "generators", although a generator technically produce DC). Square wave or "modified sine wave" is produced by cheaper inverters.
The problem with alternators are voltage spikes, under or over voltage, harmonic distortion (due to capacitive/inductive loads) and frequency deviation. This is caused by having a too simple regulating circuit on the alternator. 
You have 3 options.
1. As you stated, buy a generator set designed for electronic loads, with an AVR controller and/or an inverter.
2. Buy an on-line UPS. Usually at least as expensive as 1, but can be an alternative if you need a big gen. set with a lot of VA but only have a smaller electronic load. Gives a very good output. Best option.
3. Buy a line regulating UPS ("Interactive"). Cheaper and in my experience good enough in most cases. This is a bit hard to find for 2000W since you tend to get up to the PRO models with that power. If you can settle for a smaller 400-1000W you can find them in the price range $200-300. 
I have had a few UPSes blow due to voltage spikes, but the equipment survived due to the protection circuits in the UPS. This was in pretty extreme circumstances with a lot of nasty equipment running off the gen. set.

You can of course build something, which is a lot of fun, but very hard if you don't work with designing high power switched power inverters for a living. And it will likely not be cheaper.

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

Big difference I would say.

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

If the PFC is a buck circuit it would not be able to draw current from the lower points of the sine wave.

Knipex Twistor

One from Knipex. Not sure about the model name though.

Real power is ( W) that is when the mains " see" a purely resistive type load. here observation (on o'scope) of voltage across & current through the load shows both are "in phase" with each other..and the product 
"power" is always a positive value.
Reactive and apparent power loads do not have proper " in phase" relationship and peak reactive/ apparent power is both positive and negative ..the peak can be when excessive current is drawn from the utility , that cause sags/dips/brownouts in line voltage..yet this current does no useful work except wasted heat in electric cables and appliances generating them..
& This heat reduces their lifespans..

2:33 as you're german, i'm dissapointed you didn't use beer instead of coke </3

There's a lot of high power and high voltage in this circuit, but not a lot of safety gear in use.  Gloves, shields, etc.  If you are going to demo high power circuits, I also recommend demo safety devices along side it.  Anything above 50V is considered high voltage and should be treated more carefully.

Great video! Quick question unrelated to the topic—what is the name of those connectors you crimped on your wires before installing them in the screw terminal blocks at around 8 minutes in? (8:04 )

Yes, PFC's perform well.  However, they have the same inrush problem on power application as putting a large cap directly across the input line.  In your demo board schematic the C2 cap is, effectively, across the input line if you trace back through the D1, D2, and bridge rectifier.  There is no real current limit when line voltage is applied.  Not even RT1 is wholly effective.  After the boost has time to charge C2 then everything works O.K.  This initial current will depend on where in the mains cycle the circuit is switched on.  I am finding that most of the LED lights with or without PFC have a large input cap that must be charged.  This external cap is effectively in parallel with C2.  The result can be a very large resulting cap that must be charged when power is switched.  An installation of several or many LED arrays can mean very high peak current.  I have measured hundreds of amps peak when an array is switched on.  Not every time, but always on the peak of the sine wave input.  This leads to very short switch life.  It also has the effect of "spot welding" and therefore oxidizing wiring splices or connections that do not have enough contact area.   I have stopped using the "clamp style" (Wago style?) splice devices because of this and gone back to twisting all connections and using a wire nut.  I wish the clamp type connectors were tested and rated for these conditions.  As for the switches?  Expect frequent failures.

The real future is to have a ac and DC circuit in the same electrical outlet, with obviously more control circuit. Yeah this want to say a new standard

where does the extra energy go? is it released as heat and where?

Would correcting the power factor ratio lower the power bill?

What is the effect on true power consumtion of the active PFC? Does it have any negative side apart from the increase in components?

2:29 dafür nimmt man Bier .... sonst klappt das mit dem erklären nicht

Ps5  😒 ? Lucky

This is why I never use cheap plug in power bricks and use a proper power supply. They run cooler and last years longer compared to the black ones in the video that die in weeks or months of continuous use on LED strips

Sir can you make simple ignition coils driver?

Sorry probably a dumb question but why are the harmonics that you discuss around the 7-minute mark always odd numbers?

Pfc are becoming available as standalone modules tho it's still a gamble as some are just snake oil still

So the pfc will reduce the rms current while maintaining the active power?

I remember PFC becoming required for PC power supplies. Some supplies used passive PFC. Just a big old inductor squeezed inside. I assume that only worked effectively at a specific output power.

I have ideas to build power supply from active full bridge rectifier+active  pfc is can get more efficiency?

So does going through an inverter also perform some PF corrections?  Thinking that running some of the bad equipment through a decent UPS will by nature provide PFC, but I could also be wrong. 
Also, here in the States, we pay for electricity by Apparent Power, so there can be an opportunity to have lower bills by having good PFC.

So if we used DC as main, everything would be a whole lot better

What really needs to happen is that we need low voltage DC power distribution built into NEC for building codes.  New homes should be built with a highly efficient AC/DC power converter at the main supply panel.  Distribute 12/24V DC out from there to the rest of the building to power all the low voltage DC devices common now.

Crimp tube terminals

It's shuffled between energy storage elements within the AC waveform cycle.   Inductive elements store energy in their core magnetic field, and capacitive elements store energy in the dielectric's electric field.  These elements cause current to either lead voltage or lag voltage.   The other type of element can correct power factor, since an inductor and capacitor combined at the right frequency, have zero net reactance, as the rest of the circuit experiences.

This causes the apparent product of current and voltage, to be more than the actual power that enters the electrical domain at the source, and exits the electrical domain to the load.

Not in most cases as power companies only charge for real power for most residential consumers.

The efficiency takes a small hit since you add losses in the additional components. This loss can be quite significant in standby if you can't switch the pfc off. Hardly worth bothering with low power circuits and it's always better and cheaper to select power supplies with proper power factor (cos phi) if at all possible i.e. well designed.

How would a layman distinguish before buying? I am very curious as I don't know.

Already did in my High Voltage videos. Look for them.

 @greatscottlab  Sir I searched as you said but I didn't get it

That sucks to hear. Do you have examples for that? I would love to have a look.

 @greatscottlab  I'll fetch you some codes once I'm back from work

I would say they are all snake oil. There is to my knowledge no way to do any meaningful PFC outside of the power supplies unless you use equipment that cost a hefty amount of money e.g. inverters. In a household there is simply no point in doing this for a number of reasons, cost being the primary. The best thing you can do is check the PF of the appliances you buy and only buy well designed power supplies etc. The difference between the 9.99 power supply on aliexpress and the OEM for 30 are the components that reduces THD and improves the PF and efficiency.

Exactly.

Well. Sadly no. A PFC will in most cases lower the efficiency because it wastes a bit of power as well. But then you have to see what power gets lost because of the reactive power and the conductor resistance. It is a complicated calculation....

Are you sure about that? I thought that was only for large industrial consumers.

That debate was settled about 100 years ago 😂

​ @Qmcr9Vjm62  But maybe it's gonna change some day when we are getting more and more energy from solar panels which is DC and more things are electronically control, which means you have to convert to DC and the fact that transmitting DC is more efficient, and we have more technology than we did a hundred years ago

Or maybe 5V Dc so everything powers like the USB standard

 @markarisman1071  The problem with that is that at low voltage and high current you need very thick wires, and copper is expensive. Ok for placing USB chargers around the place maybe, but if you want to run your vacuum cleaner a 12V system would be a disaster- a 1800W vacuum on 12V would be pulling 150A, so the wires to run it would look like the ones that come out of an arc welder.

Does it mean that I pay more for my energy bills when apparent current is higher than actual current? Does electricity meter count real power or apparent power?

Could someone please explain to me how adding a pfc containing transistors and rectifier helps reduce the harmonics. Because I thought switching transistors and rectifier (which contains smoothing capacitors) usually increases harmonics

Does a PFC increase the idle power for appliances with standby/sleep mode?

The best approach would be to design the LED driver SMPS circuit with NO 400v capacitor, instead just modulate its PWM to match the full wave rectified 100Hz mains supply, so the current it draws from the mains mimics a resistor (PF = 1).
This will of course echo some 100Hz current ripple to the output (to the LEDs) but that doesnt really matter because humans cant see 100Hz and the output capacitor will reduce that ripple anyway.
You should try building one, it is similar amount of work to the PFC you made here.

I heard that sneaky fart @44seconds.  You or your missus?  Or does the dog get the blame for this one?  HAHAHA
https://youtu.be/U5cqrrhq9TA?t=42
".. at the peak of our mains voltage!    PRRRPPPP!"

400 dc?

What was the tool used @8:01 on the wire ends?

Please start arduino programming videos from begining with detailed explanation

am i the only one who heard it? 0:44

U dont explain how u can feed 400 DC to Power supply with no problem.

If the PSU or LED driver utilize capacitive dropper then how can it function on DC voltage that is coming from the PFC?

Congratulation for your video, extremely interesting, as I saw from your diagram, the last blue dot, seems at 64 VA for 50 watts, that is pretty close to 82% efficiency which is the theoretical efficiency for converting AC to DC. Can you give us the exact numbers.Have you made any video regarding the efficiency of the power chargers of the electric cars to show us how much energy is wasted on the charger during a car charging;

So unGerman for you to explain it with coke insert of beer

Am sure Electroboom would disagree ;)

so how would you go about installing something like this in your home grid ?
having 1 pfc on each item (every charger, every led light, ...) would be unfeasible,
so i would assume there should be one on the main distribution panel, but how ?

In Your Video, what are the Stripping & Crimping tools model and make?

What brand wire stripper is that? I need a new one. Also what is the tool you used just after the stripper? I might want one also.

How come the meter is showing a negative power factor, but a positive VA reading (@ 11:09). What have I missed here about power factors that makes that reading -ve?

The LED strip's current is PERFECTLY IN PHASE with the voltage waveform. It HAS NO PHASE TO CORRECT ! You really are "FULL OF IT". Your own waveform showed this.

0:44 was it a fart?

On a residential service, no.  It isn't worth the expense for utilities to account for reactive power, at the residential scale.  The meters given to residences, just measure real power and real energy.  This is an inefficiency in the utility's business model.

On a large commercial or industrial service, yes.  Particularly, those with a lot of motor loads.  They are often billed for reactive power as well as their peak "instantaneous" power demand.   I put "instantaneous" in quotes, because demand is really just the power averaged over a 15 minute interval, and the worst-case value is what is used as the basis of your demand charge.

Exactly. Solves one problem but does nothing to address 'dirty' harmonics which are not good for health.

Probably, it's one more conversion stage with its own losses.

Technically yes but the losses are usually small. Also many devices will disable active PFC when they enter a low power mode.

I should add that it would be possible to use one of the typical SMPS regulator ICs like a TL494 that has opamp style inputs, just connect the regulation inputs to sense mains supply current and mains supply voltage (both after the full wave rect of course).
Overall average regulation will then be at a constant mains power, which is fine for LEDs. If you want to add additional regulation for output voltage or current you can add that into the main regulation via summing etc.

That approach is often used in dedicated LED drivers.

And I need to disagree with you on the visibility of 100Hz ripple. LED nightlights which run on unfiltered 120Hz annoy me very much, but adding an output capacitor does help a lot.

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

Already did an Arduino 101 series. Search on my channel for it.

Well, in such cases a replacement is not that easy to do.

The theoretical efficiency for converting AC to DC is 100%. Calculations stating otherwise most likely conflate average and RMS values.

​ @eDoc2020  My old electronics book says that Power DC/Power AC of a full wave rectified sinusoidal current has an efficiency of 8/π squared and this derive from a Fourier analysis of the rectified current waveform that computes the DC component.

No, the standard solution is to have PFC in each device. The parts are pretty cheap.

It's possible to have PFC on a distribution panel but that is much more complicated.

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

Negative power factor means the "load" is not consuming power but rather feeding power into the grid. Or if a PF reading is negative it could also mean one of the sensors is hooked up backwards.

 @eDoc2020  "Negative power factor" is a misleading term.  Even though cos(phi) is always positive for loads, and negative for sources, there is a sign convention that artificially adds another sign on top of the sign of cos(phi).

Quadrant 1 is inductive loads with positive reactive power (VARs), and quadrant 4 is capacitive loads with negative reactive power (VARs).   It's quadrants 2 and 3 that are sources, rather than loads.  Quadrant 2 supports capacitive loads, and quadrant 3 supports inductive loads.

IEEE assigns quadrants 1 and 3 as negative power factor, and quadrants 2 and 4 as positive power factor.
IEC assigns quadrants 1 and 3 as positive power factor, and quadrants 2 and 4 as negative power factor.

why you don't explain the full basic of the PFC , i'm very sad

3:30 Just drink the reactive power away. Simple.

SOLAR DC!

sanusodial? suicidial?

There is a problem. How to explicitly define the 'apparent power' and 'reactive power', in single-phase AC circuits, with HARMONICS? The definition of 'real power' does not have such issue because it is based on conservation of energy, which is not the case for 'apparent power' or 'reactive power'.

If this thing gives out 400V DC then how is it different form for example 400V DC power supply?

I want to turn my entire house into USB-PD.  Lets stop using A/C for appliances.

How well will these work for class D audio amplifiers. They often come with a cheap black block. I can get PFC switching units on A l i quite cheaply.

You are happy for last two videos what happend in your life😉

I'm still wondering why 400 V DC, since shouldn't it be around 325 V ( sqrt(2) * 230 V)?

I would suggest that the title of this video is very misleading.  The IEC61000 EMC legislative framework has been in place since the 20th century.  The mains harmonic requirements have been revised  to make the standard tougher- I think that the latest standards version is something like the 4th revision. 
The title of this video suggests that this is a technology that is going to be adopted where as the reality is that this is technology that was required by legislation even last century.

Why don’t you call it what it is a simple boost converter

I never understood how there can be a phased shifted current draw. If mains traverses from positive to negative voltage... How is it that there can be current draw during the pass through 0V? Where is Ohms law?

Having tried to explain this to many people.  I prefer the perpetual loan example.  If you give your house buddy £500 a month for "bills", but almost always end up lending him another £500 for his own bills that he then pays you back before the next month.  The first £500 is the real power.  The constantly pining back and forward £500 perpetual loan is the reactive power.  The Apparent power is £1000 a month.

Omg😂 fart totally!

why ???? We don t pay for that power losses !

6:20 what software is this?

I hope we will have DC soon, instead of this AC garbage. Most devices already run on switch mode power supplies, thus DC compatible.

If more apparent power than real power is it means more power loss?

If you accidentally manage to produce a PF above 1, please file a patent and license it with creative commons!

It's based on calculating the RMS value of the entire waveform.

A bad supply would just look like the LED's draw on steroids.

You can't get constant power draw for a power amplifier unless you run a class A circuit (that's basically a space heater for a 100W amp) or you put batteries between the grid and the amplifier.

Things ;-)

"Active PFC is basically a glorified boost converter"

 @greatscottlab  Okay, thought it came along with the rectification value. Thanks for the answer and the awesome Videos!

Ideal wires have zero voltage drop. How can current flow through a wire? 



At the very moment of a reactive load crossing the zero point I suppose the equivalent resistance is undefined. It gets complex.

I pretty sure if you do enough accountancy regarding offsetting debts and assests you'll probably do exactly the same thing as "power factor" with those in the cashflow analysis.

To explain why this is bad for the energy company.  In this example, you are the energy company.  Each month you will require £1000 to get both your bills paid and your room mates.  The fact he will give you the £500 back still means it's unavailable to you.  You still need £1000 at the start of the month to "keep the lights on".  Even though it is only costing you £500 in real terms, if you don't have that £1000 at the start of the month, the bills don't get paid and the lights go out.  That's why it's bad for you.

Not mandatory. Reactive power just oscillates. It does not get wasted in theory. But since every conductor has a resistance and there a capacitive and inductive losses. There is actually more power loss with more reactive power and thus apparent power.

 @greatscottlab  ok thanks for this information

 @greatscottlab  does this reactive power affects sensitive device?

@GreatScott
So it acts like AC which makes magnetic fields on things like transformers?

0:44 😂😂😂😂 😷😷🙊🙊

Thank You Scott. I m interester in PF correction. My house makes a terrible PF I draw for example 15kWh and relase 17kVAr to grid as a capacitor. Is there any way to mitigate this?

The lack of music from the short is disappointing 😞.

is pc power supply have this pfc inside?

Wait, you mean those scam power savers?
Edit: oh, ok, they are at least used differently here. I was worried for a second.

1:18 randomly flexes ps5

When real power > apparent power = fart at 44s

Why 400vdc?

Can someone tell me the crimping tools he uses at the @ 7:45?

I see many Videos abaut   konekting  flaching .. ... .....🤤🥶🥴 Not my
I need a Chip Module with software like victron and other Charge controllers that make a konnekting  with my little power station and  my Phone

Smart meters see the high number not the lower amount, thats why the power company's are pushing for them to be installed.

I like when Germans try to act excited 😄

0:44 he farted

What tool do you use for the crimping terminal head?

Oh yes April 1st. I was about to go mad at you for scamming people.

Is it a YouTube content restriction thing or a German thing where Scott has to always say that working with mains voltage needs to be "done by a professional"?
I was working with mains wiring by the time I was 6 or 7, just wiring up plugs for appliances but plenty of people (although not enough) know how to carry out basic mains wiring tasks.

Could we increase PFC with a 'dumb' 555 based DIY boost converter?

0:43 hehe fart

Das Video solltest du nochmal in deiner Muttersprache (darf man das noch sagen?) veröffentlichen. Es ist wichtiger als viele glauben.

here in my country i can only find extremely low cost drivers for led lamps. and i`m having a problem with EMI, that they start blinking when something big is turned on. A simple beefy capacitor and a inductor for a passive should be enough, or it would be advisible to get a EMI filter together with a passive pfc?

I have goodwe solar inverter which can adjust its PF but it hadnt halped.

Really? I find it refreshing not to have to listen to psyop musack.

Power supplies with an "80 Plus" certification all have active PFC. Power supplies with a voltage select switch do not have active PFC but occasionally will have passive PFC.

I thought lots of people could relate to that

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

I wanted to include power meters in this video. But it was getting too crowded. Maybe a topic for the next video ;-)

 @greatscottlab  Good!

​ @greatscottlab  The effect of a PFC on a smart meter would indeed be a nice followup. 
Aside of the effect in the meter, how much would a PFC add to the power consumption?

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

Not by only a 555 - but a 555 is very convenient to use as the oscillator. Pin 4 connected to VCC, pin 2 and 6 is connected together, thru a capacitor to ground. Then a resistor (lets call it R1) is put between pin 3 (the square wave output) and the pin 2,6 (trigger and threshold). The frequency is set by capacitor and resistor values, 1 / (2 * C * R *0.693)
The capacitor then get a triangle wave over it, which can be connected to the non inverting input of a comparator - then the output of that comparator will be a PWM signal (that can turn on/off the MOSFET or IGBT via a gate drive), which is controlled by the voltage applied at the inverting input between 0% at 2/3 and 100% at 1/3 of the input voltage. 
To avoid the duty cycle reaching 100% (which will cause a boost converter to short out) an additional resistor (R2) can then be added between pin 2, 6 and 7 (discharge pin) on the 555 to bump up the duty cycle from 50% to a higher value that can set a maximum limit for the duty cycle by connecting the 555s output via a diode along with the comparator output to the gate drive - so each time the 555 goes low it pulls the gate drive low as well, turning off the transistor. Frequency is then set by 1 / (R1 * C * 0.693 + 1/(1/R1 + 1/R2) * C * 0.693) instead and the duty cycle will be R1 / (1 / (1/R1 + 1/R2) + R1). 

Then a signal that's composed of sine half waves (which looks just like what's coming from a rectifier without smoothing) in sync with the mains sine curve is applied to that non inverting comparator input. This will modulate the PWM from 0% up to maximum in the right way to perform nearly perfect PFC, if the inductor is big enough to run mostly in continuous conduction mode. 
I tried earlier to just take the signal from a separate rectifier and lower the voltage and adjust by resistors and capacitor and it worked quite well at high load (when the inductor stabilizes the current quite a bit), but got problem at lower loads with noise causing unwanted feedback that messes with the signal. I will try again later - maybe generate the sine half wave signal separately, then sync to mains by PLL. When I get it working I will put a video of it. It will be a quite high power one of 3+ kW - AC to DC power stage that I will use for other planned projects. 
I will not even start building things at those power levels without PFC - that's quite nasty on the grid and also means only like half of the available power on the fuses could be used.

If your grid croaks under load, then a passive PFC won't do much for you.

That's a fart at 0:45. just letting you know.

Why is a power factor of .85 recommended in France when 1 is the most efficient ? Is it just a minimum requirement ?

OK. Get everything, but what is the rationale between us using a single device per device small one of these, and them being a whole house version coming in at the mains supply to each house, provided by the electric company, and heck, once rectified to 400VDC, running our entire lives on DCV instead?

The correction factor has existed for centuries, the largest consumers of electricity are industries, which have many motors with high inductances. If you want to change the world, that's where you should start.

I was kinda confused when you randomly took the power supply apart and removed the rectifier for no reason. But I guess at least you improved the efficiency by 0.1 % or so. :D Then again, you also reduced the (real power) efficiency by adding the PFC so...

Doesn't the EU mandate power factor correcting on most devices now?

This is my first time seeing your face. Idk why, but I always imagined you being like 60

BETTER for whom ?  For the utility electric company, but as a consumer, wouldn't I want a LOWER power factor so I would PAY LESS for electricity ?  Unless you work for an electric company or in their delivery chain ?

Can someone please give me model of that crimping tool at 8:00

pauwa

But does this inject more or less RF noise and interference into the mains? There are still plenty of uses for radio communications in the 100 kHz to 30 MHz spectrum, but many switched-mode power supplies do not have the filter components fitted and cause huge problems of radio interference. Does this circuit make things better or worse? Thanks.

hm

just buy dimmable led bulbs, they 99% of the time have PF of 0,9

If those PFC factors are so important Why are they not included on the power supplier required to provide it with EVERY metered service. Real reason is power suppliers make money off it !

METRAHITE ENERGY | Multimeter, TRMS  - 1106,00 $
KEYSIGHT TECHNOLOGIES MSOX3054T - 18399,00 $
😮😯😲

You posted this 32 minutes ago? Great minds think a like my friend :)

PFC a battery.

Just change to DC.

I gave up after a little more than four minutes, because of all the verbal foam in your communication.

Unless you have a large reactive load, pointless.

I know. I put it there.

 @greatscottlab  That explains it! haha
No wonder it was so clear!

Having some reactive power in the power grid is actually not a bad thing. For this video I just simplified a bit. But better google this question because the answer is quite long and technical.

Perfect would be impossible, I guess they determined that 0.85 would be cheap enough to implement.

High Voltage DC is a HUGE safety risk vs AC. This debate was had as far back as the Edinson and Tesla times when homes were begining to be electrified.

Industry already gets charged for the apparent power. So they are paying for that and takes measures to reduce that with passive PFCs.

He connected it to the dev board which need ac input

​ @aagifford  I'm not sure what you mean. The PFC board supplies 400 VDC. The power supply he connected to the PFC board has a rectifier, so it can also run on AC. If you give a rectifier AC, you get DC. If you give it DC, you get DC...
I would have rather been concerned about the input capacitors of the power supply which are usually only rated 400 VDC, leaving no safety margin at all in this case.

Not for low power ones. But for most. Yes.

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

Since it uses High frequency switching, it does of course inject more noise. But that be deal with a filter

Not much if it has a proper filter. But since the filter is made up from inductors and capacitors (which drops quite significantly in price the smaller they get), I guess RFI problems might increase as the manufacturers try to cut BOM for their products. 
Although, that will mostly be an issue if implemented on products that don't already contain switching power electronics. For example many LED lamps have horrible power factor, but no RFI problems (and thus no need for a filter), since they use only a simple linear regulator for current regulation on the DC side.
For switching power supplies it will probably not make much difference, since they have the same problem anyway. It doesn't really matter if current coming from the rectifier is at first switched thru a boost inductor for PFC or if it's switched directly to for example a high frequency transformer inside. The high frequency ripple will make it out to the mains in both cases, if not filtered out.

It can easily make it much worse. Look at the internal square wave with variable duty cycle. Such as pulse train has spectral components all over the HF frequencies. So it better be seriously filtered and shielded!

Higher frequency doesn't travel as far, and is easier to filter, but for sure bad power supplies can be very noisy. In the USA, regulations exist via the FCC that devices can't radiate too much RF noise.

​ @aaron41  A troublesome part of how EMI is tested is that jittering the switching period to spread it out makes the EMI lower in the testing, but makes it harder to null out using DSP tricks in the receiver.

There was a pfc circuit based on the cuk converter that achieves a 0.99 power factor and I would suspect that the properties of the cuk converter radically lower the noise.

Of course, the cuk converter is transformer voodoo and a bit wonky to design.

Hope you like it :-)

i hear a fart at 0:43

Like your brife PS5 flex

wtf is sinusodial???

Not so if you have solar panels and 1000Ah batteries that power all lights and all DC Power applications in your household.  😂

Recently had a family member ask me about one of those "super power saver" snake oil things that just plug into the wall. I assume it's one of these but their marketing on their web page just heaped distrust on for me. Good to know a bit more about PFC circuits so that I know a bit more about why those are full of shit. Other than claiming that just plugging into 1 outlet fixes all your power woes for your whole house without mentioning that you would need a bare minimum of 2 and for them to be on separate legs of power from your breaker panel.
(America. Each phase provides 120 VAC which is what most devices use and what these snake oil products plug into. Each breaker panel for a home is fed 2 single phase lines which are then split out to different circuits. 120 on each phase, 240 between the two phases.)

Unless you are a power generator (off gridders take note), these aren't that useful for the individual, as we don't pay for apparent power.

This is all great information but it should be noted that PFCs should only be purchased from reputable sources.  There are many that are cheaply made and dangerous as well as fake knockoffs that do nothing.

:44

I mean.. why should i go to such lengths if i dont get anything for that anyways?
After all, energy providers for end-consumers dont bill for apparent power or how well of a power-factor your load has.
Its their job to balance that and correct for this at their substations, of if necessary, even closer to the consumers. Thats what you pay them to do.

This could get stupid if someone in standards dictates PF must be >0.9 over full operating range.
Try this on a pfc corrected LED driver which has a load range of 0.5 watts to 100 watts. Add in EMI filter components and you can't do it.
Prove me wrong.

Williams Betty Hall Kimberly Perez George

For few days ago did you opened a WhatsApp business account about trading...is that real or fake

Я не знаю что с собой поделать, но я не могу смотреть как он по нескольку раз обводит одну и ту же букву!

Dude, I really like your videos. but please look up how to pronounce sinusoidal, it's really not that hard :D

It is not sinusoidial.

Jajajaja you are from Germany???? You should use a beer A BEER MY FRIEND!!!!!!!!

The problem is that nobody cares as long as they don't pay for the reactive power. If people paid for apparent power, they'd be more inclined to buy better quality appliances

You Can’t use Cola for this experiment is has to be Beer 😂

this circuit is simply overkill and not needed - grids have all kinds of mechanisms to catch feedback and put it back to mains
you can exceed amperage of wire if you do impulse bursts - not sure what he is trying to improve here

What kind of ferrule crimper have you used in 7:58? Is it Rennsteig 610 190 6?

Also an inverter that powers all units always used during the day (ie. Fridge,  TV etc)

 @stevetobias4890  And once you add an inverter you are dealing with AC and power factor becomes important. Actually more important because the inverter needs to be large enough to handle all the apparent power.

The inverters are other thing to buy with caution, some of them can damage or devices :/

 @EulerFink  only if they are not pure sine wave inverters

They contain a capacitor across the power line. The idea is that they'll act as passive PFC for inductive loads elsewhere in the home. Of course this doesn't work well unless the capacitor happens to be the right value for the inductive load and the inductive load is on all the time. Naturally this wasn't scammy enough, modern versions of this often use a sand-filled box instead of a real capacitor.

 @eDoc2020  I figured as much. And the heavier they are the better they must be, right? I prefer mine with just a big chunk of pot metal taped to the inside.

Sure. For now. That might change in the future.

I wanted to keep it kids friendly :-)

One from Knipex. Not sure about the model number though. Sorry.

Knipex Twistor 16 and Knipex Precistrip 16

Does this happens to electric car chargers too? Or do they have pfc in them?

So an incondecent lightbulb is actualy more efficient for the power company because it only draws real power

And if electric company would charge residential consumers for phantom power we would be better off using incondecent lightbulbs?

Also I didnt understand you properly does PFC somehow reduce radio interference that swichmode psu generates (at least on the AC side?

Probably stupid, but why isn't 36V DC provided over mains? Aside from the kitchen, i have no ohmic consumer running. I don't need DC anymore and would be better of, if all those non-linear consumers had mere resistors, to correct there input voltage. 
Wouldn't one big PSU not be way more efficient than those umpteen small ones?

What about embedded linux?

Didn't Ben Eater do this a couple weeks ago?

I find PFC to be noisy though

2:30
Sorry, I still do not understand Apparent power.
The Real Power, that energy is used in what ever I am using, mostly turning to heat energy. I Think I understand that.
But the Apparent Power is  the power running through the cables in the wall? So where is the difference between Apparent power and real power "used".
The wires in the grid do heat a little from the resistance in the wire, right? But that is not the difference between Apparent power and Real power, cause I guess that heat is just a part of the real power. So where to the difference go?

Bro did all this to say S11 is mismatched so you get power loss. Like you need a matching circuit we know this

In my opinion this thing shows that in the future we need switch to DC power. If more and more devices use DC, and we will need to add PFC to practically all of them, using AC will be more and more problematic. Transfer to DC will probably take a lot of time, but watching this makes me feel like use of AC makes less and less sense.

Oh great... yet another EMI/RFI source in the house! 😑

Question: does the PFC radiate or inject any noise?

We have problems with all this garbage switch mode power supplies burning out neutrals in transformers .The garbage technology must be removed from the AC system .Or your only choice will be to go to DC power distribution which is less efficient over distance

Kakvi lepi instrumenti, lek za dušu !

Actually I would like to turn this one the 180deg. Imagine how much electronics that we could avoid if the power grid would be designed to handle the bad  PF. Just in my house ther is probably 10 products with active pfc smsp. 
Unfortunately that is not reality, maybe make a video that could look in to solution that would alow many “PF sinners” connect to the grid.
Br

You should be aware that a free energy device is being advertised on your channel. I cant tell if this is blindness to YouTube ad selection, selling out, or a solid troll

A german not using beer for the example i am deeply disappointed.

60Hz mains > 50Hz mains.... 😉

Why is your voice so different from the other videos? Different microphone?

And why is it the most important circuit for our electrical future?

Hi

All mains equipment over 75W must have a PF better than 0.9 or you are not allowed to sell it in EU, so yes all electric car chargers have PFC built in. (EN/IEC 61000-3-2). This is only a problem if you buy cheap badly designed power supplies under 75W (at least in EU). In US this is up to each state to regulate, but there is a recommendation IEEE 519, so most likely in US as well. Most of the world usually follow standards that are similar, but they may not always be enforced, in my experience.

 @Qmcr9Vjm62  thanx for the reply, always good to know.

No. A 100w incandescent draws 100VA. An equivalent brightness LED lamp might use 15w but with a poor .5 PF it would draw 30VA. 30VA is still less than 100VA.

 @eDoc2020  yea but think about it

We save money on lightbulbs (that are realy usefull for heting your hands in winter or keaping snow and ice off your roof (if u use rope light), while we drive electric cars that require a lot of power to charge (if like 10cars charges at the same time) and their batteriee degrade

Besides that, an incondecent lightbulb was like 1€, while a good quality led is about 10€, and they both break

What I hate about all this is the regulations, like why cannt I use an incondecent lightbulb if I want to, or a flurescent tube

Why ban this, you know, I am looking for months to find a 220V incondecent rope light, and even in china I cannot find any, and regulations play a big part in all this

Like instead of regulating how much noise can swichmode psu produce, they ban incondecent lighbulbs and flurescent tubes, like you know how much harder is led to make (size plays a big factor) an incondecent bulb or a flurescent tube

I wish that one day there will be a regulation that will forbid a device from producing noise that its primary function is not transmitting, like a swichmode psu

I wish some day, I will be able to walk in the store, buy modern device like a swichmode power supply, a furnace, a dimmable led, etc and that I will be sure that it will not produce a single dB of noise (it can be done, put it in a cage, install filters on inputs and output wires), if human can make computers and leds, they can make quiet swichmode psus

They just just need to be forced to, like I am forced to use a led, and a separate furnace to heat my hands or a separate heater to heat my roof in winter

DC lose more energy over distance compared to AC, maybe one reason it was not done this way.

 @tiloalo  That's only because DC circuits often run at lower voltage than AC circuits. High voltage DC is just as efficient as high voltage AC. The problem with high voltage DC is it's much more dangerous to deal with.

What about it?

 @tiloalo  suggesting topics for his videos😅

Really? I think I missed that video

My mistake. Another channel covered this. Ben's project was a voltage pump... Similar but different

Reactive power is taken up by the device, but then later in the cycle the device releases the power back into the grid. This obviously causes unnecessary heating of wires.

There's one "secret" reason why AC works so well: the zero-crossing breaks the arcs which naturally occur when you break a connection. If you use a normal switch on 110v DC it will sustain an arc and quite possibly catch on fire. Switches need to be much better built in order to safely work with DC. The same is true of power connectors.

​ @eDoc2020 
Yes
But it's much easier to add arc suspension (for example a small cap for removing disconnect arc and a coil with a diode or similar part to slow down charge) to every device than PFC. And if done correctly it will allow using normal AC switches and normal-sized sockets. Only breakers will need to be different because breaking DC short circuit will be a problem.
In my opinion it will be much easier to deal with a single problem which is arcing, than with many more problems that AC creates, for example losses in wires because of induction, capacitance and skin-effect, it's much harder to balance the grid when more and more solar panels are mounted and inverting DC to AC only to rectify it back to DC in the majority of devices sounds kinda inefficient.

Yes, but not much if it is well designed. If you want absolutely clean power, there is a very easy solution for that: batteries. Cheap, clean, low impedance. There is a bit of intermittency when you have to change them, but that's often tolerable.

​ @schmetterling4477 a very good point well taken.

That exists today. I'm no expert on the power grid, but I do know that for industrial applications there are sub-stations that have passive PFC. My guess is that the cost is very high and the loads vary a lot, so difficult to design a PFC for a whole block. In addition you would still have problems between the PFC device and the consumer, i.e. in your block, building, flat or where ever you try to do PFC and filtering. 
I believe the only practical way to solve this is to require well designed power supplies. That solves both the PF problems, harmonics/interference and efficiency. Unfortunately our society today seem to go for the low cost option 99% of the time, which leads to a "race to the bottom" where quality is the first casualty and repairability the second.

No changes from my side actually.

Hi. You are first ;-)

 @greatscottlab  Finally someone realised the true meaning of being first.

do you have a brother who has another youtube channel?

iPartialltUnderstandHarmonicsInAcSystems.But,IImagineThemLikeThis:A PendulumSwings,AndThenItsBlockedALittle,Then,ItSwingsWithPerturbations

I don't like mouser. I wanted to buy 4 different capacitors before and it came to about £3 total, and they wanted £16 postage lol. That's no good at all. Better off using fleabay and ali for components.

Power farter 🙂

Bro can you answer me come on 😭😭😭😭

Did he lose weight ? DID HE LOSE WEIGHT ? i dont hear my favorite breth sucking (eeeuuh) before next sentence.

well ya one BIG PFC POG mahsine inside a HOME CONECTION SPOT::. but.. well i not gona spend money for such a stuff... for more.. from small powerbrick with PFC.. man.. can you inagine a MONEY DRAG INPUT from makers?? who gona pay for it?? beter spend some on electricity instead of pay for mashine what make revenue +15years.. on small powerbrick.. pasive one is OK.. fitlers help too.. this is not suitable for ALL electonics.. specialy for some with SYMETRIC PSU..

48 min ago

It's *not* a full bridge!!  It's a full wave bridge rectifier!!  It has always been, and always will be, a full wave bridge rectifier!
If you use two diodes and a center tapped secondary winding, what are you going to call it?  It rectifies on *both* halves of the sine wave.  So it is a *full wave* rectifier, NOT A FULL RECTIFIER since it no longer has the four diode bridge.  The rectifier, no matter what, must always have the word "wave" after half or full.  Always!!

Thanks for the otherwise great video.

I don't think they'll ever put PFC on any charger. Because if they do, the "there is no free energy" charade will be gone. Contrary to AC motors, that have low PF and low efficiency, DC sources exhibit an anomaly : low PF and high efficiency, which means they could be pushed in overunity. I'll be experimenting with this soon and I believe results will confirm my assumptions. I wouldn't trust any DC source or charger that comes PF corrected. Pretty sure they might add a variable resistor circuit or something to de-compensate, that is, hike consumption by the same degree of PF correction so that from the user point of view there would be no free energy, having always power draw higher than output. Let's not ever forget that science is politicized - Covid showed us that in medicine - and energy physics is politicized for more than a century. I see red when I read how obfuscated reactive power is in all texts, how can you have the same text insisting that "reactive power cannot be harnessed, cannot be used, cannot be converted in other form of energy" at the same time with explanations on PFC. It's just mindboggling how they managed to keep this lie for so long and how electrical engineers manage to keep their mouth shut about it. I'm a beginner in all of this and I can only play with capacitors, but as an economist I understand how they obfuscated the formulas, considering Efficiency = Output/Input instead of Output/Power Draw. But hey, saving our arses from the Great Extorsion age requires learning and adapting our lives to this mess.

being a german not using beer as an analogy? disapointed

I know coke is popular over there but wouldn't a true German use beer instead?

All this is covered in the electrical & electronic engineering degree. - nothing new here.

Sorry to ask, but was this a fart at 0:44? #ChildishSunday

The guy makes intelligent video,  but top comment is about fart.  Oh the humanity.

I know this is crazy...  But how about we do the electrical grid like they did in the old days..   BY BUILDING IT for FUTURE CAPACITY!  
In fact, we HAD all this extra capacity.  They closed over 10,000 plants all around the world or more.    And about the grid itself?   They have been just keeping up the old infrastructure without upgrading it at all since the 1950s.      

Instead of running new lines?  They just tapped on what was there, and then told everyone to use "Energy Efficient" bulbs and appliances.  And switch to Natural gas for things like heat and cooking.      WE HAD all the capacity and then some BEFORE!   But all this making more gadgets to put a band-aid on it all is just that.  A STOP-GAP.  Nothing more.

Sorry, but this is all wrong. What you see is Peak Current - not "Apparent Power". The effective power is proportional to the area below the curve. Therefore a short spike of high current in every sinus wave doesn't mean high power. Think of PWM. The only problem with such circuits is that those none-sinus signals cause HF noise, with the power cables acting as antennas, which might disturb radio frequencies. The energy efficiency of the LED transformer is certainly quite perfect. If your assumption was true that 36W input convert to 21W output, the small power adapter would be heated up with 15W - what would heat it up quickly. A power factor correction means that you put I/U in phase, if it isn't - like for inductive loads. In your video we see (0:40) that I/U is in perfect phase, so this PFC circuit doesn't do anything in your case, except dampen the peak current a bit which has no effect at all to your power grid. You can have this cheaper and cleaner with a 50/60hz LC filter.

lmfao a few watts of lighting is hardly a problem when your clothes dryer is 5500W and a water heater is 11,000W

10W of LED reactive power is hardly of concern.

Parasitic energy draw...😒

THis is not true, where do you need PFC ? YOu PC goes from DC LFP battery. 48 V server too. Your NB need 19 - 20 V DC - LFP. 
YOur phone need DC - 5 - 20 V. Your ebike needs 35 - 42 V - 10S - NCA. Where do you need PFC ? Nowhere,

Not that I am aware of.

Haha

Sorry, but your comment is all wrong.

I feel like we all must make our small electronic so effeciënt on one side, but on the other side energy gets wasted by the thousands of Watts to charge our "green" cars we're all suppose to be using soon. Whatt's the point of all the neglegable savings ? Not that it's not interesting knowledge.

Too much accent. 

Would appreciate a machine-read text of this.

Why is this video gotta be so reactive?

08:36 There is no such thing as a full bridge rectifier.
You have been watching too many videos by ElectroBoom.

The component is called a bridge rectifier .

It is a bridge rectifier that performs full wave rectification. The word full is not in the name of the component.

It is a shame ElectroBoom misnamed it: it is leading to a whole load of people incorrectly naming it.

Please use the correct name for the component.

The PFC circuit is pointless. A sinusoidal voltage and a sinusoidal current create a (1-(cos (2*Pi*f*t))²) power function which is of course not constant. How to achieve constant power (ie voltage) at the output, if the input power has a pulsating form?
This means that the PFC circuit cannot be a DC voltage pre-regulator as is often used. When it is a pre-regulator, it would have to draw constant power at constant consumption. And this would tend to create a current function of the form: I(t)=P/(A*sin(2*Pi*f*t)) which would draw a large current at low voltage points to maintain constant power. Such a current function increases the effective current through the conductors and creates additional transmission losses.
The best point of consumption for the smallest current through the conductors is at the top of the sinusoidal function. And the best PFC corrector is an LC filter after the diode rectifier, which suppresses the high harmonics of impulse current disturbances, i.e. reduces the current peak and extends the duration.

PFC only makes sense on machines that have sinusoidal current consumption that is out of phase with the voltage. And these circuits are called reactive power compensators.

There is also no conclusion from the measurement that the installation of the PFC circuit increased the effective input current by more than 10%. Because of this, losses in electricity transmission increase by more than 20%.

I'm so sick of cheap nasty Chinese power supplies ! 😩

Who cares of this reactive power draw? Electricity cost in my case is negligible comparing to the cost of components you showed.

If I drink a bunch of vodka, this video makes no sense..   js

I'm waiting for the day we all find out Great Scott is actually right-handed and really good at writing backwards...and just mirrors it in his video editor.

OLD SUBJECT.
Yet mysterious to many calling them selves electricans WHILE whole project must be repaired again by foreigner from Poland mad as hell....
Walking around Peterson Coil ( harmonics, and shortcut detection ) with all the allowance smart stickers like Orders on Officer chest asking the last on payment list politely what are those for....
God damned wild west...

Learn economics and forget this yada yada or nytimes headline stuff!

ummm, PFC is nothing new....

I think in the future we should widely adapt a DC power line instead of AC. This simple solution will much increate the efficiency of the power grid as well as save so much materials/components for fixing issues like the one you mention in your video.

Meh.

Did you fart?

The difference between real power and the stuff we don't use will always be there because there's no way of anticipating demand accurately all the time and you just simply can't store AC and so the only other alternative would be falling short sometimes which is arguably a complete deal-breaker from the perspective of most people in living in our instant gratification societies today who will gladly overpay then be denied of what they want unable to handle no even for the briefest period of time

This video does a terrible job describing reactive power

It's all because circuits are poorly designed.
And what you did now is exactly what Musk's Mantra is all about.
You're adding complexity and you're increasing the cost  in order to solve a problem that shouldn't exist if everything was done right.

mouser sucks in europe.
their shipping rates are ludicrous

Old problem. Old hat. PF correction is old news as any 1st yr student will confirm. Poor explanation.

We're not "supposed" to be using electric cars. But if you need to use a car ICE cars waste around 3-6 times as much energy as electric cars.

​ @eDoc2020  If there is clear push to electric, why is "supposed" not a correct word ? Maybe I should clarify. If you have to pay for thousands of watts to charge your electric powerhorse every day, what is the point in saving miliwatts from other devices ?

No

Maybe....

 @greatscottlab  😂

So shipping sucks. Not Mouser.

Pow Wa, Pow Wa, Pow Wa, Pow Wa, 
speak correctly please

LMAO - that oscilloscope is worth more than my brand new car. That’s insanely expensive.  Why do you have a laboratory-grade oscilloscope for an amateur YouTube channel??!!

The glass analogy never works for me w.r.t. Power Factor... It explains a physical analog of real, apparent, and reactive power, how only real power is "useful" like the non-foamy part of the drink, but the existence of foam has no relevance to the existence of reactive power. 

If we could eliminate foaming from carbonated beverages without affecting their carbonation, we would. But the same isn't true for reactive power, which is absolutely necessary for induction to take place. Similarly, a correction to power factor does not eliminate reactive power, it just offsets for it with added capacitance.

😮😢😢😢 halaaki meri life. Me aesi ladki hai na 😂😂😂😂aesi kabhi nhi hai isme itna pyaar bhara hai 😅😅😂😂😂 with no side effects issi liye to bhula nhi paa rha

Notice the PFC input current "sinusoid" has lots of high frequency noise on it, caused by the PFC swutching circuit. This will interfere with nearby radio receivers: AM and shortwave broadcasts and ham radio operators like me. PFCs should have good AC line input filters, and be forced to meet EMI standards for low conducted and radiated radio-frequency emissions.

Guy escalating his self-importance by allegedly showing a tiny, almost secret, technical issue that when totaled up over the whole grid is a power emergency! Surely his world changing effort is going to save us all from total disaster. This guy is soon to become a famous icon in the power industry.

Waiting aayirunnu German kara

This video is soooo cool! We are taught how circuits should work.

Interesting. But now I wonder if this is something I should use in my daily life as I mainly use computers and phone chargers.

Thanks for confirming what I have suspected for years.
Unfortunately it is not practical to fit one of these boosters to every wall wart and similar power supplies however I believe that units are available to add into your incoming distribution box that actively manage your home power factor up to around 1500 watts of power draw. Above that power limit and they switch out of circuit until the power level falls again.

Power factor is one of the reasons I think DC could be the future. Switch mode power supplys can work perfectly on DC. Old school transformers are becoming a thing of the past. Many appliances have inverters in them nowadays, so could be DC capable.

Amateur?

