Very well Sir.. In general I never follow channels. But , your explanatton is Very...Very... Good. I'll follow your Channel.

Great video. Thank you for sharing your knowledge.

DWIN NICE

Great

Can you show the value with 2decimal?

Can u tell me how to write float value on dwin display

I like your video, well presented but i have a question about the connection. You connected ground, tx2 and rx2 of the screen without the vcv? And it works?

Hello, could you help? I have an ESP32-S3 N16R8 and I can't connect it to the DWIN T5L2. I'm really tired of it. I don't see 0XA5 0X5A via serial.

the values on mobile and dwin are not synced
we need to do some more thing

Bro how can we connect esp32 to mobile and controll from both display and mobile pls help

please have someone made the water level indicator project on this dwin display or can anyone guide me how to do that please 🙏 i ll appreciate it 😢

Sir I want connected esp8266 my router lan network......you can see this tutorial only esp ap mode connect....my requirement is esp board conceted my router then router WiFi acces then control....is possible?plz reply

Which software did you use to generate images that you used in DWIN project ?

Hi I have the EVAL EKT040B. Why didn't you put a level shifter on the TX of the display for the ESP-32? is the TX output of this display 5V?

An error occurred while upgrading the screen and it became a black screen that does not work
Can you help me to restart it
DWIN LCD DMG80480C050_03WTR
can you help me
I can't find a way to reset the screen again

Will it provide feedback on tft as we use webserver as input for relay.. i.e., if relay one is switched on from webserver/ mobile will the status of lcd screen for relay one change to on

How we can make two way connection likee when you turn on the light from the web server also change the state of button in the dwin display?????

i am trying to upload project but its not uploading 
on sd card or via cable,what should I do??

in this video, they're not synced

Bro how can we connect esp32 to mobile and controll from both display and mobile pls help

