Out of the blue, I was just thinking of all the uses of diodes.  I thought of about 10 unique uses very quickly, and then just kept coming up with more and more use cases.  There must be hundreds!  Even obscure things like temperature sensing, light production and detection, radio detection, switching, logic and ROM, decoding and encoding, frequency tuning, etc... etc... etc... Anyway, all of that led to this video and it was very enjoyable.   Diodes may have a humble reputation, but they're the basis of all semiconductors and thermionic devices.

A fantastic video for the hobbyists, and a great refresher for the professionals. Easy to follow, concise and very well executed. Thanks for sharing this and spending your valuable time creating this content 👍

A lot of information here` explained very well.

Much appreciated. Great, finaly someone explaining what to do with the stuff and not just functional principles . Thank You very much.

Mr.
He said, You got him.

thank the algorithm, and Mr Wizard for this

Great video and in depth explanation. Thank you.

Neetest work Shop

مهندس جان کارت خیلی درسته. لذت بردم واقعا، با همین ویدیو اول که از شما دیدم عضو کانال شدم.

My current favorite diode - the ones with the capacity to help you tune your resonant circuits! Also the one ones who deal with light, in both directions for equal measure!

This fellow is a legend, detailed explanation, and friendly teaching. Well done

Man, glad you are back. Have seen your different videos about electronics (open collector, microcontrollers). Hope you'll add back  them all. Subscribed already

One of the more interesting uses for LEDs is as a dual-purpose power indicator and voltage reference. The sharp "knee" in the I-V curve means the forward voltage remains relatively steady even if the current changes. I've seen (and built) a few circuits which exploit this.

LEDs can also be used as photodiodes (i.e. light sensors), though they are not very efficient for this since they are designed to be efficient emitters, not receivers.

I don't often comment on videos and I'm not one to "subscribe" but had to do both on this one because it's obvious to me that you love to teach and both your visual aids and the order of revelation of your simple explanations are, IMHO, impeccable.  VERY WELL DONE, good Sir!

You are awesome in the end of video 😂😂 
Also your videos really useful , liked and subscribed

Very helpful! I sure hope my diodes won't mind being in my circuits now! ✨😃

I always wanted to learn electronic engineering, but because of money issue i took mechanical. Now i want to fulfill my dream of  learning  electronics practically just like how we create machines mechanically, and YOURS is the only channel which i have found right on the dot. Amazingly and calmly explaining. you got all the tools and components in the background, i wish you all the very best, and always aspire to be like you. Would be an honour to be in touch with you.

Yours is one of the best electronics tutorial channels on YouTube.  Thanks, subbed.

3:32 that's a bridge rectifier

Diodes are very talented devices 😊

Thank you too, for watching the video and writing such a encouraging comment 😃, so nice of you

Glad you liked it❤️😃

Thank you dude for your warm and encouraging comment 😃

Thank you for sub. I have face an issue with my MCN and because of that I have created new channel, I am going to add old videos along with new videos

I felt the same.

It is an honor for me that you spent your valuable time writing a comment for me
​thank you for supporting me ❤️

😂

Thanks for the sub!🥳

WAW!! It was the most beautiful coincidence when I met your channel.❤

Thank you so much for making a thorough overview on diodes! :)

your content is amazing, you are my new teacher. thanks

Put the yappy dog in another room lol 👍

Subscriber number 26 here!
Just found your channel.
Great content - thank you for taking the time to make this video.

Glad your back!

Man, thank you for this great vídeo with all the basics 👌  

We (except the haters) all greatly appreciate your time and effort!

Outstanding channel, thanks for taking time to share information.

Mr. Exist applications to switch his lasers, maybes calls Spectogram or Spectrum, something with Hz, I almost put him down long times ago.
He want to kill himself, gives for us that he want to stop.
Thank You.

You have a great channel, I have learnt a lot watching you. Thanks for sharing.

I love it ❤

good presentation. minor nuance though: at about 6:00 in the example of reverse circuit protection you referred to using a schottky diode but the symbol you used was that of zener ;-)

You must save your project!!!!

Hello, great video, thank you. Good to see you back, I was sad to see you disappeared from youtube! Where are the older vids?

Mobile phone cameras aren't fitted with an infrared filter hence why you can see the IR led blinking. Any purpose built digital camera has an IR filter fitted as that would show up slightly on images.

I have so many questions about the magic of circuits and you answer a few. Thank you.

very clear explanation, it is good to collect knowledge in one lesson, well done

Excellent presentation of diode capabilities and common usage.

This channel is great, I'm consuming each video at an alarming rate.. please keep it up, your examples and explanation is superb.

Nice video. It's interesting to connect a piezoelectric sounder to the output of the infrared receiver. You can hear the pulses and hear differences between different brands of remote!

You are most welcome , cheers 🥂

My pleasure!❤️

Happy to hear that! 🥳

Welcome dude. Thanks for sub 🥳🥳🥳🥳

Thank you dude❤️

I appreciate that!
Thank you for supporting me ❤️❤️❤️

I appreciate your kind words. Thank you for taking time to comment ❤️❤️

Thank you for watching

Thank you for watching 😊

Thank you for noticing the point. Sharp lines are presenting zener diodes and curvy symbol presents schottky. 👍

 @elewizard  well, an S and a Z are still different (inverted) whether you use curvy or sharp lines.

I had trouble with my MCN. This is my new channel and I am going to add old/new videos here

I will answer 😉more in next videos

Glad you liked it!

Used, 3 t05 cans with 12 diodes in each(closest to identical as you can get) 1/2 of each can were used to pass + and the other half of the can passed - placed between 2 opamps. Out of one opamp +/- to Input of the next +/- the delay caused by the two18 diode strings gave us the ability to do limiting and compression on audio

Many thanks!

Wow, thanks!

Yes that is nice. But the sound fifference is not because of band difference, it is because of the difference in the code the remote sends.
IR remote controllers are my favorite,  I will do projects with that as soon as possible

Looking forward to your next video 🙂

Great video. Thank you very much!

Very very good video. Thanks

I appreciated the style of teaching, subscribed! Greetings from Italy

Good presentation sir. Keep it up.

This is EXCELLENT!!!

I like your video, i like the circuit to charge battery

I am learning , that's good.

Very good and informative video!
Thank You!

Respect for you. Your channel helps me to learn about electronics. You have a new subscriber.

Well done, nice video,thanks for sharing it with us :)

Your explanation is amazing. Please make more videos on understanding electronic circuits and with emphasis on what each component does in the circuit.

Thank you very much for all the knowledges..appreciate it!

Excellent explanation..! I appreciate your hard work..!

Knowledgeable video.

Excellent. Many thanks.

Thank you so much for excellent presentation and informative videos. I have already subscribed.

Your efforts sharing this valuable info are greatly appreciated. ❤

Best video man 
❤❤❤❤

I was looking for the all uses of components because I am suspicious of one or two uses for each component, and I am glad to see this channel and from the beginning I subscribe the channel 🙏🏻

Thanks for sharing subscribed

You are welcome!

Glad you liked it!

Glad you liked the video, you arr most welcome my Italian friend 😊

Thank you, I will

Thank you so much

Thanks for liking.

Very nice,  keep watching 👍

Glad it was helpful!

You are most welcome my friend, I am proud of having audience like you 😃

Thanks for watching!

Thank you dude. Will do 👍

My pleasure!

It's my pleasure

Glad you think so!

My pleasure!

Thanks and welcome ❤️

My pleasure 😊

Thank you so much 😀

Thank you for subscribing the channel. Keep watching 👍

Thanks & welcome

Hi and thx for your effort.
I wish someone would make a video on how to find/calculate value etc for real life situations for us ignorant enthusiasts.
Let me explain. I am using lots of buck converters - boosters and  lithium solar chargers. I use bear modules for cost and flexubility. In their instructions are mentioning not to reverse polarity and put a diode etc. How do I find which diode? how do I calculate values?  I have clamp meter and accurate multimeter. No more fancy  bench instruments.
I do not want to become an electrinics engineer just solve everyday little problems in laymans terms.
Any help or direction much welcomed. TNX

It’s not wrong to say it’s very simple because it is! It’s the easiest silicon based component to make. But being simple is what makes it powerful. All silicon based components have diodes or diode like stuff in it

Sir, I am from Bangladesh 🇧🇩.
I recently search your channel but could not find.
Today  Got you❤️

The usage of Diodes is quite clear in someways, may I get the link of the video that you've just mentioned at 7:37 about the battery backup charger?

I have subscribed immediately! Let’s wait for the next insightful videos. Bless you.

Thank you for great explanation! Best regards from Ukraine!!

another fantastic video, I've been making notes.cheers!

Sir i have being following your channel, but i can't find Your old channel anymore what's wrong with it, i do love your videos

you are a great teacher. thank you for shearing this knowledge.

If instead of using a Shotk Diode (example 2) we use a full bridge of shotki, It will actually work on direct or inverted pollarity

I did not know S and Z rule and have worked in electronics for many years, thanks

🌺🌹 Excellent 🌺🌹🌺

عالی بود استاد

Awesome video. New subscriber here.. Please also make video discussing applications of inductors.

excellent explanation

Thanks a lot

nice channel! :yt:

Make similar video for coil inductor

Greattt😅

Thanks!

Exactly 💯

So nice of you.
I had trouble with my MCN and because of that, I have created a new channel. I am going to add old videos along with new videos here.

Awesome! Thank you!
New videos are coming soon

 @elewizard  Thank you so much 🙏As a beginner, I want to understand what is bandwidth of a signal. I have googled but can’t find a simple explanation of how bandwidth related with hertz.

My pleasure ☺️ 
I hope the war between your country and Russia end soon 🍻

 @elewizard  trust me it won't end soon..( I'm in Odesa city. Thank you for your support!

Glad you like them!🥳🥳🥳🥳

 @elewizard  tbh for this sort of stuff you are better than Mehdi, the way you list things, to make note taking easy. whereas, and please don't be offended, medhi is more entertaining to watch. (don't think i expect you to start zapping yourself!)

I had trouble with my MCN and because of that, I have created a new channel. I am going to add old videos along with new videos here.

Wow, thank you so much. Thank you for being here 😊

I like the positive mood you brings us with you...🙂  @elewizard 

Glad it was helpful

Thank you! Cheers!🥳

Thank you dude

Welcome aboard 👍
I will make it as soon as possible

Glad you liked it!

My pleasure! 👍

Glad you enjoy it!

Will try

Please explain inductor

Will do👍

Thank you so much ❤️❤️❤️❤️

Thank you

❤

Thanks

radja + lep, just saying, can you do the driver?

Thank you so much for this video, very instructive; but are you going to post a video on how to connect the charger to the battery while connected to the main circuit? Thank you so much 😃

nice video,, can you make a video about replacing diode on solar panel?

in one of my freelance projects i solved inevitable (and expensive) solenoid death with a diode

6:02 good explained

Good evening sir...
Very nice video....
What happened with your other channel...
I really missed u and your video...
Lot of ❤ from odisha, India

I would prefer you show me how to build 8 useful devices with diodes.

Great video friend!!

Did you used to have a different channel? I remember watching a video from you about capacitor applications that was extremely informative amd helpful. But the video is no longer available says YouTube.

قربون لهجت برم من 🤩😘

Another application is to use the reverse-bias junction capacitance for adjusting the frequency of a tuned circuit - varying the reverse voltage varies the capacitance, which can then change the frequency of an oscillator.  Varactor diodes are specialized for this purpose, but the effect can be demonstrated with pretty much any reverse-biased diode.

hehe hmm, I think the zener diode might have saved my arduino from literally smoking the other night =D

4 things on my mind to add: 1) LEDs can drop up to 2-4V, depending on its colours! The bigger the band gap, the "colder" the colour and bigger voltage drop! 2) I never heard of flywheeling diode, do you mean flyback or freewheeling? :D 3) I'm missing the explanation of the flyback diode - it's dropping that peak voltage because it allows the coil to "decharge" through itself (to absorb the inductive current kickback), making a nice peak current "circle" flow between the diode and the coil, instead of your circuitry. 4) I'm surprised you didn't mention opto-isolators alongside with LED transmission devices, those are my favorite type of power protection devices!

we used to get potable 12" tvs from the tip and change the diode then sell them i was only 10 made a fortune in the 70s
from caravaners that had put the leads wrong way around

At 7.42, you mentioned a video on charging a backup battery setup, and I am most keen to see that, but I can't find it on YouTube .
Can you direct me to that one please?
Great videos btw.

Product munition diode gear lock town house friend don't use terror like a salvo on boat's it explodes big

a diode is the best invention ever, Even betterthan the light bulb. (even though they were origionaly a light bulb)

That's a big chunky diode

You're welcome🍻

❤️❤️❤️❤️

Thank you too for watching ❤️

Yes, but not soon 😢

 @elewizard  I'll be waiting 🙂 thank you so much!!

Thank you so much for your suggestion. I will consider your suggestion

Great job 👍

Thank you😊

High dude, I missed you too. 
I have faced an issue with my MCN and because of that, I have created a new channel. I am going to add old videos along with new videos.

Maybe in next videos

No, I don't. My last channel is not available because of the issue I had with my MCN. 😑
 I am going to upload old and new videos here 👍

Khoda Nakone ☺️

You were lucky 😉

1-i mentioned the voltage drop capability  2-yes flywheel is used 3-correct 4-i can't mention everything,  I have to ignore many other items to keep the video length acceptable

the load normally only takes the current needed

I said in one of my next videos, the video is not published yet. The video is going to publish in 10 days

Maybe, I think transistor is more important than the diode

 @elewizard  Please make a transistor without a diode.

Yeah

Thank you again for such a broad explanation and clarity❤

Hi i wanted to know that how circuits are designed. How do engineers know where to put a capacitor, resistor or inductor.
I think its an advanced topic but a simple explanation will do enough.

The only component I think of as “simple” is the wire. And even that requires a bit of thinking when the gauge becomes crucial in the application. 😢

7:00 shows a battery connected to the main circuit as a backup. I want to connect multiple batteries together to supply a device that expect 13.8V @ 30 A peak and 2A continuous. I was thinking of using multiple 12V power tool batteries. I don't want the batteries to charge each other. just want them to drive the load together. Is this a good application for diodes or is a MOSFET better in this case?

what happened to the old channel? I saw all your videos long time ago but here it looks reuploaded! is this a new channel?
any way I subscribed and waiting for you to Explain more electronics and more concepts
good job my friend

I'm new to this. I'm an electriian. But I have a question

Hallosirtransisterdeteals

I create a node on common positive side, using diode to merge them using a full bridge diode, in my country Indonesia its actually cheaper to buy high amps diode by using full bridge rectifier 😂

a diode can also be used to make an AM radio

Wonderful tutorial! As you rightly mentioned that zener diode can be used to protect the circuit from over over-voltage, can it protect an ac voltage? Can it take care of under-voltage?

Many cameras have a IR Filter so the Light of a Remote can't pass the lens

How do you read the code printed on zener diode should you not be able to get the data sheet for the diode? 
Would appreciate it for the assistance as I feel that all my research to my question is leading to no answer and thus I hope that you will be able to assist me. 
You're explaining on components and examples are the best that i have seen and even advise my colleagues to watch and subscribe to your channel.

I really enjoyed this video and have now subscribed. One question though - Re the induction motors, why do you usually see a capacitor across the terminals and not a diode? Or do they serve different purposes?

There is another way to reverse polarity protect with a diode, that's by placing a regular diode in reverse bias across the power input so long as your power source is fused. Connecting the power backwards would pop the fuse before the diode burned.

Thanks for the video. Can you please in the future remove the "bleep" sound?  Hurts my head.

In forward bias setup, if you pass negative current through the cathode side of diode will the diode pass the negative current through the diode?

If you series diodes, you can create a time delay

Very strange things happens at time 3:38-3:39  . Suddenly the circuit transformed to something quite different that it was a moment ago, but there was a perfect oscillogram. I have an idea what difficulties author experienced . Likely it was the ground which is common  for both channels. It is very sad that the author didn't clearly show how he resolved  that.

Solar cell is a diode. If you put power into solar cell it will emit deep red light visible in camera. Diode can be used to protect relay contracts from REMF from a heavy DC inductive load when contracts open. The diode absorbs the energy that produces momentary arc in relay contracts.

"It seems easy" no! In fact it's all super confusing

Glad it was helpful!

It is not easy to answer your question. But if i try ro answer your question  in a very simple way, they learned from books which are written based on experience and knowledge. 
In my opinion,  all of these sciences and knowledge are coming from experience.

Good point 👍

Hi, yes this is a new channel. 
I had trouble with my MCN and because of that, I have created a new channel. I am going to add old videos along with new videos.
Glad you are here

You are most welcome. Ask your question in a new comment

Good solution 😂

Very general

 @elewizard  yes. should have clarified -- can be basis for a rather simple crystal rectifier radio

No, It can't protect AC or under voltage 👍

You can use a "Voltage dependent resistor" AKA: Varistor

Cellphone cameras can sense IR

 @elewizard  for example mine not. It is an iPhone 7 Max and if i hold a Remote in front of it, no sign.

You need a microscope to read tiny printed text on the diode, then search for  'SMD zener diode code table' on Google. You will reach many tables that map the smd code to device name 👍

Good question! The answer is not simple to describe.
In next week's I will upload a video about capacitors and their applications. One of  experiments I will cover this subject 👍

An induction motor needs a rotating magnetic field to operate. On a single phase motor  a extra separate winding connected in series with a capacitor gives a phase shift or timing difference between two windings causing the resultant field to rotate and this causes current to be induced in the rotor and the rotor will turn. Nothing to do with spikes.

 @colinbatey7876  that's an ac inductance motor. The original referred to a DC motor

It did, but the question said induction motor which as you say is an AC motor.

They serve the same purpose. To protect from high voltage spikes, but they do it slightly differently and at different price points. If the manufacturer can get the capacitors cheaper than the correct size diode, they'll use the capacitor. Because the diode would have to withstand a potentially high voltage and current spike that would make them more expensive.

Yes, exactly. And then the user have to replace the fuse or sometimes the user think that the device is broken.

 @elewizard It's not a particularly good solution. It's just something that is sometimes done.

OK, In new videos I will remove that sound. Bad news is I have few videos ready to upload and there are beep sounds on them

 @elewizard  No worries since they are already made.  Thanks for your consideration for the future.

Passing negative current means drawing positive current,  so ye answer is yes

Yes, you need milions of diodes to make 1sec delay. And you need kilos of voltage to pass through the diodes 😉

EDITED

You need to explain that. I spent decades designing electronics and never once used the inherent characteristics of a diode to produce a delay.

Are you referring to the so-called forward recovery time of a diode? It is real, but not something predictable enough from diode to diode to have any practical use for delay purposes. Very few diode datasheets specify forward recovery time.
The reverse recovery time of a diode means there is a delay in turn off of a diode, but again that isn't something I'd ever consider for deliberate delay.

If you had a ramp or something similar then you could use a diode or a few diodes in series to prevent significant conduction during part of the ramp to some down-stream circuit, producing a delay. You'd have to contend with the production spread in the forward voltage of the diodes and its fairly large temperature dependency. It could be useful in some circumstances (e.g. in a zero crossing detector).

Yes, you are right. But I think it was not necessary to explain what exactly happened, because my goal is to teach the concepts not the experiments. 
However, your comment shows that you are experienced 👍

Yes, exactly. Thank you for your comment

A diode is not always the best choice for contact protection with an inductive load - or for protection of the driver of a relay coil.
A simple diode acts more-or-less as a short circuit across the inductor when the contacts open or the driver turns off. That means that it can take substantial time to discharge the energy stored in the inductor. Often that is not a problem, but sometimes it is. For example, a diode across the coil of a high-power relay not only delays the opening of the contacts but it slows the opening once that actually begins. That can lead to increased arcing of the contacts, shortening the life of the relay.

Maybe

I believe, that these components have a complete computer inside, especially the SMD types. To control the computer, first it must be installed into a device. When you experiment with charging, your diode become removed from its default blacklist, and starts its normal operation, for example removing the memory effect from batteries. Same with SMD resistors, but when you destroy one, there is no computer circuit inside. So the component is on blacklist due to radiation, and the component’s memory effect status causes its default regional blacklist.

I turnoff after 10sec because of all the hand movements😂

So I can use a ZENER diode to block current in a circuit when the voltage is below the zener diode voltage?

Is this your new channel. What happened to your older videos

I have a basic question I was hoping you could answer.  Normally, a resistor is used along with the diode to limit current.  However, when used as a rectifying diode bridge, I normally do not see any resistors being used to limit the current.  So my question is, in that case, what limits the current?  Is it only because they are high current diodes and therefore don't require any external current limiting? Thanks!

salut domnule cum sunteti

Sir, I got your feedback on the question that I raised. I commend you for it.

 You used 1N4148 as a flyback diode in an indictive circuit instead of a power diode such as 1N4007, Why? I think that 1N4148 is a signal diode and used in a circuit that requires high switching speeds.

Please, refer me to your videos on Operational Amplifier and how one can use it to compare AC voltages.

Thanks.

Anyone know what would be oscilloscope banditech/samples  if I would like to see and keep testing (able to see what what is happening)  these at home with these diodes (and possibly some NAND /transistors) ? On this video looks like it is 100Mhz Oscilloscope, that would be pricy for just learning and small tests. Thank you

Which one is suitable diode as flyback . 1N400X, 1N4148, or  schottky diode ?

What happened to your channel "x electronix master club"? It disappeared minute after I watched your last video without a trace!

DAMET GARM

ok

You can also use silicon diodes als switches for low voltage ac signals. As long as the ac signal is lower than the forward voltage the signal is blocked. When you now add a dc voltage to the ac signal, which is higher than the forward voltage, the ac voltage will appear behind the diode on top of the dc voltage. Using 2 capacitors before and after the diode you can switch the ac signal on and off.

You can also use a full wave recitifier to switch between a current sink to ground and a current source from the positive supply voltage a point in your circuit whos voltage is between positive supply voltage and ground. you just need to connect one of the ac inputs to your circuit point and the other between ground or positive supply voltage. The current source and sink are connected to the dc outputs of the rectifier. In this way you can make a 555 astable multivibrator whos output switches the current source and sink to the capacitor point which gives a precise linear voltage ramp, which can control other circuits (for instance a vc oscillator or a vc PWM generator).

0:00: 🔌 Diodes are versatile components that can rectify current and have various applications in circuits.
4:30: 🔌 The video discusses various applications of diodes, including rectification, reverse polarity protection, and connecting multiple power sources.
8:52: 🔌 Diodes can be used to reduce voltage in a circuit and as flyback diodes in relay circuits.
12:17: ✨ The use of diodes and zener diodes in circuits to eliminate spikes, regulate voltage, and protect against overvoltage.
16:45: 📺 The video discusses different types of diodes and their applications, including the use of LEDs for remote communication.
Recap by Tammy AI

Votre chaine est formidable pour l'amateur que je suis, je m'abonne.

Too bad! The electrons are actually flowing the other way!

irani?

Why are you yelling at? You are not a sportscaster. A little mercy, we're wearing headphones.

You only covered two of the more boring applications of diodes, their ability to conduct in one direction (rectification, reverse voltage clamping) and zener reverse breakdown for voltage regulation.  Diodes have many more applications e.g.  switching, mixing signals (e.g. diode ring mixer), temperature sensing and compensation, voltage controlled capacitor (varicap diode),  logarithmic conversion, high frequency oscillators and amplifier (Gunn diodes, tunnel diodes, IMPATT diodes etc...), photo detection and emission.

Rectum Fire.

I believe that you can become a good writer in the science fiction genre 😉

Another important ingredient of electronic components is smoke. If you exceed voltage and temperature you will let the smoke out and it's finished.

Sorry about that.

Yes, you can

Yes, this is new channel.
I had trouble with my MCN and because of that, I have created a new channel. I am going to add old videos along with new videos here.

It is because of the power supply.
The output current of power supply is limited,  so you have to use a diode with a current rating higher than the power source. Then the power supply can't deliver current needed to destroy the diode. I hope you got the answer ❤️

 @elewizard  Yes, thanks.  So in general, if the diode rating exceeds the current delivered by the circuit, then you don't need a current limiting resistor.

Thank you, I am just fine 🙃

There is no need to use power diode there because voltage and current is not much high, actually power dissipation is low then we can use 1n4148 or other diodes there.
I will make a video about OPAMPs as soon as possible 👍

 @elewizard  Thanks so much for your feedback. I am looking forward to seeing your video on OPamp.

Yes the oscilloscope in the video is 100 Mhz but for these experiments a 20Mhz would be enough

Yes the oscilloscope in the video is 100 Mhz but for these experiments a 20Mhz would be enough

Oh thank you 😊,  20mhz is affordable

Mostly depends on the circuit. In most cases 1N4148 will work 👌

 @elewizard  Hope you have worked with various type of RELAYs practically. Do you ever face any random issue with RELAYs ? I have a related Question for this.

I had trouble with my MCN and because of that, I have created a new channel. I am going to add old videos along with new videos.

ERADAT 🫡

Ok 👍

Thank you for your comment. I will cover these items in updated video of this.

Diodes as signal switches suffer from nonlinearities, so they are not always useful. They are good for switching RF where the signal amplitude is quite small and a bit of distortion is tolerable. It is important that the DC bias be applied from a source that is reasonably high impedance relative to the signal path impedance. In RF circuits this is usually accomplished by means of an inductor in the DC path. A properly designed current source or sink also works (an ideal current source or sink has infinite output impedance; practical ones don't but can be very good).

 @D614G_aka_Doug  yes, you can use a full wave rectifier (4 diode bridge) to switch a current source or a current sink to a load by control voltages. And the currents can be different or you can modulate them by use of voltage control. I have used such a circuit for charging and discharging of the capacitor in a 555 astable multivibrator by exit voltage control in order to make a very precise voltage to pwm converter.

Welcome aboard ❤️

Yes, but this way is much understandable 😁

 @elewizard  Did they correct this on FET's ?

Are 🤪

Your are right, I have to change my speaking style.

Add a few diodes to your headphones VCC.

 @manualspellcorrect9073  A very silly suggestion. My Headphones are not the cheap ones. Shall I cut the cable? Do I open the computer and place a diode between the circuit paths? WOW....

Thank you for your comment. I will cover more items in update video of this. 👍

Good enough for beginners

 @qinaan  What I listed are practical applications; useful and commonly used functions that can be realised using discreet components.  This has nothing to do with chip fabrication design.

Multimeter input protection is another use for diodes.

Yeah, diodes are amazing, but I've got about a 90 minute limit on watching a single video!

Let us know when post your video.

 @qinaan  Because the video title was a bit misleading, it only showed a couple of the most used properties of diodes.

​ @ferrumignis 
I don't think he was offended. And neither was I. I appreciate you pointing out that there was so much more to diodes. There is so much still to learn. But I see that you don't have a channel. Maybe too busy for that.

 @ferrumignis  how the hell is the title misleading?! “8 Awesome applications for diodes in circuits”…. He listed 8 applications for diodes within circuits, and he believes them all to be awesome. He never alleged that there were no more uses whatsoever. So again, misleading how….?

Now, can we hear this in English? :-)

Is there a specific way to determine which voltage and amperage of a diode I would need for a a circuit. Thanks for the video btw. I now know I need Schottky and Zenner diodes for my applications. I'm trying to make circuits for multiple power supplies and want to use the diodes properly. So for example a wall 12v power supply, a solar panel setup , and separating different chemistries of battery banks for charging and discharging in the same circuit along with a capacitor bank for large voltage spikes from motors. I like a challenge I guess. I literally want my Off grid setup to have as many options as possible for stabilities sake. Getting into solar has revitalized my interest in making circuits. Especially when DC to DC power circuit adapters isn't as standardized for the home as it should be. I see a business opportunity to make it more plug and play. The current environment is having the end user play with naked circuits to get what they need. Which is frustrating when running everything from DC in a home on solar. The closest thing to plug and play is car auxiliary plugs and USB 3 and USB type C but it limits what can be done to 12v and 5v. In a DC only setup you sometimes need 24v and 48v devices. I'm aware of buck and step up converters but they are not plug and play. Companies simply do not supply DC only adapters for their devices if its possible to do so which creates the headache I'm in, but I do spot the opportunity to have a business that they can point to for the purpose, and trust that it will run their devices safely for the end user. I'm working out a plan for it. Maybe one day you will see the converter option on power brick inverters for your devices. 🤷‍♂ All I know is why did it not happen sooner. Its even an advantage for Survival and Emergency situations because DC is the last power source to work. Even in a pinch. Thank you for listening to my TED talk lol.

Use gasoline new silver to yellow medal mix with help of pounding and blueberry polar bear new mita pollin mix all medals with yellow soaked in gasoline and pounded together with pounding use of gas separates yellow medal and green gas to new medals I think 🧐💬🤔🤔🤔🤔

Bit disappointed as this description was very basic and limited. What about zenner diodes, PIN diodes, Gunn diodes, Step recovery diodes, Impat diodes, shottky etc. was hoping for more.

Sorry can not understand you and the dog barking is very distracting.

ThankYoU…🫒

In the opening caption, Exampl needs an (S) .Examples is correct.

FULLLLL!!!!

Can you pronounce at least ONE word correctly?

the sound effects are too loud and annoying

A monode is a diode with a broken leg. Moronode is a stupidiode

What is a rectal diode

Is a gun diode lethal?

Stop drinking vodka

much better protection circuits.  diodes wont always protect.

Thanks

You can use auto translate 🤪

wtf

youre drunk.

 @CleoKawisha-sy5xt  and you're not very good at being constructive. The only thing making me drunk is curiosity.

Thank you for mentioning the point. I will update this video and I will cover more cases 😉

Thank u fort all ur usefull and helpfull vidéos.  Sir

Is he your personal youtube entertainment provider lol

Thank you too❤️

Thank you for the tip. Please mention everywhere you see my grammer mistakes.
I will consider your tips in new videos.

 @elewizard  I meant it kindly.I am trying to help.I do like your videos.

👍

Your English is much better than any attempt that I could make at your native language. I have learned a great deal from your videos, without your pronunciation getting in the way in the slightest. Keep up the good work!

 @ifoster3011  thank you so much for supporting me. So kind of you ❤️

Sorry for that 🤪

 @elewizard  No need to apologize! Perhaps Mr Decide has never been out of the country, or even his state. You did fine.... even with the accent. Sheeesh!

Thank you for your feedback

Yes, there are lots of methods, but using diode is very chip

Sure, but this is introductory level stuff.
Protection circuits can be a real challenge and require very careful design that is way beyond the target audience of this video.

Your welcome

