"real basics of aerobatics" meanwhile, i'm crashing every 30 seconds trying to hover xD

watched this video for 2hrs straight playing back in loop , and finally right now I did my 1st roll and flip, thank you for the video. thank you for the wings of freedom . god bless

"Basic"

8 years later and this is still helpful

My drone is on tree from last 3 days...
"BASIC"

Was that LOS, man you were killing it...I got a looong way to go.lol

BTW acrobatic flying is much easier when viewing fpv... Orientation can get jumbled using line of sight

Thanks bro now I can flip the drone

I wish you kept up with this series.

Very informative .

i have seen many instructional videos on drone flipling but i have never seen one that shows the controller at the same time. keep up the great work and always think outside the box.

When he says stall turn haha

First time on your channel 👍👍👍 looking forward to learning more about Acro! Thanks for your awesome video!!!

Thank you for this super informative video.  I am super looking forward to joining the racing drone community. This video is now one of my favorite basic training videos.

Well explained. Thank you. You got a subscriber at 1 minute and 7 seconds of the video. I like the fact that you went directly to the core message and did not waste time on nonsense

very helpful thanks!! viewing the stick movement help me a lot

Dammit you are so Good at this, I wish you were my Dad!

i need at least 10 quads to learn this

Great video dude. Exactly what I was looking for. Thanks a bunch

Good stuff
 Gotta get my hands in this mix soon

😭😭 just got one

You and i both!!

😂

Me too

Hahahah so true I’m happy if I get it started 😅

What drone were you using? I'm searching for an inexpensive FPV freestyle drone.

 @ibjet  get a mobula 6/7

🤣😂😅

ahahaha

U must of had a issue with your drone lol

Maybe its not happy with how you made it fly...😂😂

It's funny watching fpv pilots try and los. It looks exactly like they have never flown because they get so disoriented.

 @BlvlWmpower  yeah it blows my mind to watch heli pilots fly los

Totally agree. I personally would never be able to fly acro LOS.

 @grumpypoof9648  acro? Like gymnastics?

We don't know if he's wearing goggles or not, never shows his face.
But I Agree, attempting a flip from line of sight is sketchy if you don't know the orientation of which way your drones facing.
I attempted my first FPV flip and I still ended up landing flat upside down and lost an antenna during the process.
Thank goodness antennas are cheap.
What I did is I forgot to let go of the throttle to stop myself from flying straight down at fast speeds while upside down.

Not really, 3d view still the best until you lost your orientation 😅😅😅

many tutorials have stick overlay where you been

really great video with the controller !! thanks !! and keep the good work !!

Great video. I see what I was doing wrong now. I stuffed my vortex in the ground so hard a few times because I was not chopping the throttle. Luckily that thing is built like a tank.

Nice video playlist... This is what i'm looking for.... :-)

Thank you so much for this explanation, well done!

Thanks for this i learned my first rolls and flips today in acro watching your video helped me 👍

I’m gonna try that shit next time love acrobatics things

Thanks for the video, it helped a lot!

YoutTube should add a "slow down" button

thanks so much, greeting from your new fans and happy weekend ;)

man thanks for clear tutorial :) i made my first flips for the first time with out a crash thanks alot :D

Awesome lesson!  Thanks!

nice tutorial for beginners

thank you so much man!!! im going to keep watching youre videos as they are easy to follow and i shit my goddamn pants when i go out and try  them

Excellent video, sir!

great video!  so helpful

this is the best teaching video!

Great video. Thanks

thanks for sharing 👍

Well done!!

Great vid!

nice manueuver

amazing video

Nice video

I did my first flip yesterday 👌🏻

good tutor, thank you

This is exactly the kind of stuff i have been looking for

Ur awesome man .

Amaze still 😮

U make it look so easy

Yeeeeah....try this on the simulator and crashed a couples of times...

Impressive...3 minutes without a failsafe.

Ha I did all this with my Eachine E012, sweet little drone👌👌. Thanks for your lesson cheers👍

Sweet now I'm a pro

awesome

YOU HELPED ME THANKS ALOT NOWIM DOING THE AEROBATICS WITH A SMOKE BOMB O: looks amazing Btw

Nice one..btw im gonna break mine 😂😂🙊

nice!

this is what i want to see.. how to control the best

The Blade Zeyrock is a great beginner quad to practice flips and rolls on.  Its durable and will do awesome manual flips and rolls while stabilised.  IMO.

good way to learn ,men have a problem is most like disoriented  or something like it ,when the drone comes to me without the googles I just freak out ,because left is right ,and right is left

Yes but which drone is it?

that make me crazy jejejeje

Tq very much bro it is really working and I love u bro tqtqtqtq

Thanks!

thank you.

Basic Acrobatics ! :)

Me does this with a dji drone wow it works

I am like it Drone small and Remote control toy s Thank you to very much 😊😄😃🤠🙂💖💓😜😌☺️😅😂

a few months ago watching this i thought this is crazy. After I really start flying los with my drone as soon as the drone lifted off i thought this is insane. after so many crashes and so much time passed, I fly mine much crazier than this 😂😂 if u practice it will start to shine someday. This is real it may look hard but keep on pushing it will come.

Muito irado

thanks

cool

THAT LOOK MAD COMPLICATED LOL

I really thought it crash at one moment HAHAHAHA

I appreciate these tutorials.  Slow mo demonstrations on the stick movement would take it over the top.

👍🏼👍🏼

which flight controller is best to make this type of drones

show off ! !  lol 👌

Watching this at the end of 2022 laughing because Horizon  doesn’t have a quad right now

Wow!!!,you are amazing .Do you sleep with that thing?.

he is good

Can you give us tips to get a nano QX2 to flip? I have never seen or heard of anyone getting this to flip - sure would love to hear tips, or better, see you do that on video.

YouTube lets you watch in several different speeds. I've been watching this at 1/4 speed. Then, you need to go back and watch it again in full speed to get a sense of timing (approx, because drones vary a lot in speed).

Married with it😅😅😅😅

LOL

For amateurs like myself, the instructions were to fast!

If you want to do aerobatics that are really fun, do it with a heli, no replacement for blade brapps!

U can do this with those itty bitty drones 😂 I’m a pro with one 😂

Entendi foi nada só vi

My first trick was crash. The second was loose drone. 😊

Im 61 new to drones thay are not easy to fly hovering is ok but anything else I try it wants to go away from me no matter what just kill the throttle I've already lost on you make it look easy gesus I keep trying thanks good video i watched your finger's hopefully it helps.

I wonder how advance looks like

This is strait and to the point while also being very easy to understand. Great tutorial!

Check out the rolls at .25 speed!

Mine just fly left when i do that sticks move.

You make flying line of sight look easy.  Thats crazy. ! How long have you been flying for?

yes! Super "basic"!
Please, someone tag HowToBasic channel here!

Does this depend on the settings for the drone? Thank you for your answer, I hope you will be more successful ;)

how do you stop so quickly and hover?? 😂 Its soooo hard!

I cant do this because I have a mini drone that slows down and lands safely

do you play this without googles?

1st lesson - slowly takeoff and just hover above the cone
2nd lesson - freaking loops, rolls, spins, going sideways, upside-down, spinning like crazy

Dude tell me that was not Los lol.

I powerloop into a little mudhill my quads dead

Blade!!! Where u at??? Not in the drone game anymore???? Why??

What drone can I buy to do aerobatics? I have a DJI Mini 2 and it won't do these maneuvers.

 @ibjet but an fpv drone

What’s the drone called ?

Amorteamocomonuncamivida,

When i do a quick backflip the drone falls from the air.

How to cruise along the ground without going to the moon?

...basics...I am wondering what then the advanced things are oO

Why were you not using a spektrum trx

how would you get a 4dRC 4D-F4 to do that stuff

what are the use of the switch that you toggle on/off?

I think you should have text showing what each stick is doing not each to follow as "basic" viewer for FPV.

I recently bought a DJI Mini 2. I love it but I was hoping to do some aerobatics, which I guess it won't do. Any recommendations on a drone that will do aerobatics?

Btw my drone Vs FPV PRO the camera is up side down I don know to fix ut

What kind of drone is that...i like to buy one

Use dji avata 2 please

But can you go inverted?
Great video mate!!!!

So cool! How much is that setup cost?

So the first step we go ⬅️➡️ and as you can see the drone moves left and right...
To do a very basic flip, it's as simple as: 

⬆️⬅️➡️↘️↗️⬇️↘️↙️⬅️⬆️↖️🔁↩️⤴️↖️⤵️⬇️↗️🔽🔼◀️⬆️⬅️↙️↘️↔️🔄⤵️⤵️⬇️

I do that but it's never on purpose and always ends badly.

ITS COUMING HOME

With acro mode? I have a 250 pro can i do this with the 250 pro? The drone has no acro mode.
PS.: Sry for my bad english i am coming from germany

bro can you share me that PID Tuning

ultra rc yes you can do it

only if you have the correct esc's right? and firmware for fc? right?

I can do this tricks  with a normal drone ?  ( bugs3)

Can you do this with a DJI mini 3?

Can I do flip in cf921 drone?

how much would a drone like this cost or maybe a slightly cheap but good one like 500$?

Can naza m lite do this aerobatics

Cool. Been looking how to do it properly. Appreciate your lesson. Cheers 👍✈️😊
Hopefully I’ll not crash 👍✈️😊

Is that the ix 12 radio?

Was it all done with line of sight???

what are you rates on the quad?

Are you using a button to perform the flips and rolls or just the joysticks?

My fpv drone turns of in mid air for no reason pls please help me please

I just keep crashing! You need to slow it down in speech department. I have been able to roll , fly easy but acro?

How do you capture controller videos? which camera and how did you mount it ? In neck or on controller itself?

Is the drone in acro or 3D stagility mode in the video

Which flight controller do you use?

Step 1, no team failsafe haha

what drone is it??

I there, I am just joining the fpv hobby with the Aquila 16 drone, just to be sure, you are doing this in acro mode right? or "manual mode" for the Aquila 16

I am yet to try all this - my worry is this:  In Acro mode when you're doing a flip, is it the pilot's responsibility to make sure that the drone is back upright? or will it anyway come back to the upright position after the roll? i know that in angle mode and in horizon mode,  the drone will snap back to an upright horizontal position.

What rates are you using in this video?

you will crash

ziggyzbeak R.C. Lol. I’m banking on it ha ha 👍😊

RaceFace FPV notice he doesn’t fly more than 50 metres away? So many noobs are taken in by Spektrum marketing. Been there, failsafed too many times, forced to spend again on a Taranis when Spektrum junk was holding me back.

Horizon or acro mode?

What drone are you flying & where can I buy it? Thanks.

Ahat drone you use???

Is it applicable for TinyGO FPV? I only piloted Syma X5 which can't do any of this. I ordered TinyGO 4K FPV but mailing takes 2 weeks so I want to learn as much as possible in the meantime.

Hi guys,

I just wanted to talk about my quad, I built a MHQ2 quad by hovership ( http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:511668 ) which I printed myself then assembled. At first I had no camera or FPV, however now after flying it for a couple of weeks, I invested in a simple FPV system and a cheap GoPro equivelent (the SJ4000). This has really helped my flying, and the SJ4000 is great quality and has produced some absolutely epic footage. I have started to get into the more racing side of things now though, and want to go faster ( as many pilots do). So, as I have come to realise that the MHQ2 really isn't meant for speed, I was thinking about getting a new carbon fibre frame. I had in mind the QAV 180 , 210 or 250. I really have no idea which is better and if my current 3S system with 2300kv motors will work on those slightly smaller frames. If anyone could help me out, that would be great. Also, if you want to look at the videos on my channel and see what you make of them, that would be much appreciated. (leave a like and sub if you enjoy them). 

Thank you and I hope someone can help me out. :)

What is your gear?

My drone battery only lasts 6 mins

What the name of that drone

if you talked a lot more slowly i might understand. as it is great video but no more.

Oh no hes a pitcher

Mode2?

Tryed this today. You make it look so easy. 
But I crashed at least 40 times 🤕
I must do someting wrong I suppose

This wont work on a Holy Stone 720. Doesnt try to flip at all lol I guess it only works on really lightweight drones and the 720 is rather heavy

Brian

1:57 it looks like a bug

Is that on acro mode or horizon?

Are you flying in Acro ?

consule players dont understand this control lol

what's the model of your drone? and also can I have your email please? just wanna ask something...

What mode is this on? Acro, horizon or Angle?

Getting better. Slowly but for sure... 🤪

Acro

Are you using fpv goggles or not?

Whew! Did you fly this in LOS or FPV? Such a perfect orientation

Which FC

?

Hello, that looks like the Vortex 250 I have a question self leveling I'm pretty good at now I'm flying in acro and a little nervous. What should I set my expo on when wanting to do flips.

so u can just roll a drone without it needing a button for it?

Needs FPV

Hey awesome piloting, Do I have to have motor stop on or off to do flips, rolls, and loops? Thanks.

Can you tell me how to make the center of the sticks have the mooshie feeling and not so sensitive but when you give it a hard roll or flip the sticks are more sensitive?

Can you do these with micro drones? I dont have the money yet to get these big racing drones or any thing like that

I would have never imagined putting together throttle combinations like that in a million years.... This video has just expanded the playing field

This is brilliant!  And it's SIX years ago!  I had no idea that drones could be made to do aerobatics.  May I please ask - can you recommend a drone that would be best for someone just starting out with aerobatics please?  Thank you.  And thank you so much for this video..  Just subscribed.  Best wishes.

This has to be LOS

The Mavic mini can't do these moves, can it? The response times on this drone of yours appears to be cut for such aerobatics

For this tutorial, you was in horizon mode or acro ? Thank you !

I have a problem. When at center, my quad is tilting backwards in acro mode. What should I do?

wow thats so cool, probably a really dumb question but can you do this types of aerobatics on dji drone?

can you do this with any drone o.o?

Pinching makes me angry. Dont ask why.

Is this really basic?

romangorchakov thats a very good question i also wanna know!

Donnell Thigpen crashing

ShanesPlushies no

motor stop always off

Amber Meows You just described expo so well I'm surprised you don't know what it is.... but yes to get what you described, on your Tx you would increase the expo. If you have a tuneable FC, play with the rc rate.

I am about to start building this 99$ build. And its actually more like 300-400$ when you include (cheap, chinese websites) transmitter, goggles, bunch of batteries, charger, antennas, some spares etc. Just saying :)

Josh bardwell covers reviewing all sorts of models and types of equipment. His channel would probably be a good start for that.

 @platty9237  Just saw your reply.  Thank you so much!

No unfortunately the mavic is a GPS and gyro balanced drone. It will never turn itself upside down unless crashed.

Acro mode for sure

*****  How do I balance it?

If you cant disable auto leveling then no.

Ry Ken yes you can. just enable manual mode in the DJI assistant

If there is a will there is a way, but a nice beginers racing quad is quite allot cheaper so why would you

If you have money to throw away -yes. You WILL crash learning to do this. I suggest getting  a cheap one to learn on that can fly in acro or manual mode

Not all drones . I changed my parameters on my mavic 2 pro to manual flight and gopro hero 8. It looks like acro and its hard to fly but its not the same like this fpv racing drones you have not the same quick turns it runs all slower.

i wanna know,  was this flying in LOS?
also was it in auto-level mode?.

Is it possible on a drone which is not a racing drone? ?

What's the FC on that quad?

hi Blade, are you able to slow down your video as the real time video is too fast to learn.

what is the name of drone?

are you on airmode or horizon mode?

Will this work if my drone has a gyroscope stabilizer

I can barely make my little drone go up in the air much less doing this "basic" flips 😱😱😱😱, just imagine advanced aerobatics 🤣🤣🤣🤣. If I only start practicing these flips I'd had to buy 12 drones a day cause I will destroy them in a heartbeat.

What quad is this?

What mode were you in?????

This guy is pretty advanced. I get confused with the directions when the quad is not facing away from me. How much practice does it take to get comfortable with controlling the quad when it is facing towards you or to the left/right?

That was basic?  fml

Hi i need help can you help

NOTHING BASIC about that.

Horrible instructions

my drone is a jumpbo q7 with drone dont problem for acrobatics?

I'VE BEEN DOING THIS SHIT EVEN BEFORE THEY HAD DRONES!

see this guy is fake because above the line,the sun shine is dull,below the line sun shine is bright

What quad is this ?

you can achieve this in horizon mode which is basically acro with some auto levelling

Pranav Hushe depends on what drone it is. It has to have advanced flight modes . Acro mode to be precise. That’s the flight mode he’s using.

the vortex has it's own custom FC, it's called the Fusion FC and since this is the second Gen Vortex (250 Pro) it comes with the "Fusion Gen2" FC

octane koh I don't know if you know but you can slow a YouTube video within YouTube on a desktop or tablet. 
To slow video down by desktop, their is somewhere within the video where you can play and pause it. It should be a gear looking icon click it and look for the different speed choices ( x followed by a number speed time and the video will slow. YouTube for mobile now has the same speed choices.  Again just do the same for desktop instructions or ask google on how  to slow down a YouTube video. Believe me when I say it halps a lot now that I know where to find it and now I can use it on my Android tablet youtube app as well.

Abbas Alasgarov vortex 250 i guess

Christopher Magtoto he's in acro mode

No

Acro mode mean gyroscope system set to off so no stabilizer 😗

ye put your dji drone in manual. Be warned thought. I do this with my mavic mini 2 all the time

tmboyninja nah, this is ment for people who fly fpv racing quads in acro mode

XxcuponkbrozxX its a racing quad, he probably built it himself

Edward Flanagan Beast mode. I think it was acro even though it looked like horizon.

This was indeed Acro mode.

it seems horizon mode with air mode enabled

acro nobody with a racing quad flies anything else

sadigov everybody should learn fly los. what helped with me was a simulator. great practice for winters

i got same problem.. and because of that i broke 2 quads already.

sadigov if you are still getting used to controlling it when its facing you I wouldn't even attempt acro mode/doing tricks. Once you can do that then that's when you do what this guy does in the video.

That is what FPV goggles are for

But either way, I put a green led on the front of the quad and a red on the back.

iam pretty sure that wasnt line of sight because if it was..... i will give up flying today lol

Sureshtrishi Trishi have you concidered that not all cameras work the same? they can have vastly different settings when it comes to contrast whiteballance and other key factors

Imagine not understanding different cameras have different ISO behavior.

