2:13 that's funny, the only quad I ever lost used this Matek GPS, home arrow took me in a wrong direction and battery ran out and the final coordinates my goggles and radio were showing after it crashed were a good 20 km off 😅 Since then I only fly long range along visually distinct lines/curves/points that I can trace by foot. Sure I still use GPS, but rescue mode is off and so is the arrow, I only use coordinates, speed and elevation. I verify coordinates before every takeoff using my phone to make sure they are correct too. Anyway a good person found my quad 5 months later and was able to track me down using the GoPro footage ❤️ and after cleaning up a bunch of corrosion (motors were the hardest), everything works now for 7-8 months. Moral of the story is don't trust technology 100% and always have a backup plan 🙂

Thank you so much for reviewing our Spark headlamps!😊

damnnn honestly this channel really hope for beginner builder.....

Awesome sauce

I always look forward to watching your videos,as ive learnt alot from you.
keep up the awsom work...cheers....from Azza.

I solved my problem with this video

Gal just rescued our quads right now, thanks gal for your tutorial!

Very clear thank you Gal 😊

Very informative as usual. Thanks Gal.

GPS is kwad saver as well as vifly buzzer...great tutorial Gal 👌👌👌

Great video.. and that head lamp looks cool.  Water proof!  Installing my first GPS thanks for your time and video 👊👊💪💪

Thanks for the great tutorial.

Great video, very informative I’m just starting to try setup my GPS on my quadcopter.Wish me luck.👍

Solid info thank you friend

I too got this same tmotor quad 😁

Just had a thought.......it would be great if betaflight was able to detect the bitrate of the dji system so that for example if the bit rate hits 0 mbps for more than a pre set time then the gps failsafe would kick in.
So a failsafe for Rx loss and also video loss!

Nice one sir. Just setup my new HGLRC M80. I tested outside without props about 10 mt far. I am getting 14 sat but I am not getting home arrow on my DJI goggles and as you said i have assigned a fail safe switch to test but when switch is activated the motors stops spinning. When i flick the GPS rescue swithch when armed the motors are spinning fast that means rescue mode is working but on fail safe mode motors stop spinning. My 3D fix shows true. Any clue sir need help. Today i walked about 100mts with the quad and checked with the same result

Wonder why my drone will fall of the sky went i switched GPS rescue, tryed DJI on the edge of signal and then switched GPS rescue it turned around 180 then went down

Man i shud have known this test method long ago 🤣 no props and walk with the quad.

What does the quad do when it gets "home" and you haven't regained control? i.e. if the radio is off or broken? will it land or loiter or disarm?

Hi Filip, well you know how it goes, maybe it was just bad luck :-)
I am glad the drone was returned to you, that must have hit you with surprise. 
As for your conclusions, you are absolutely right - that's why it's important to record the flight footage of the flight, mark important waypoints, try to get to know the area that you fly in using google maps and use a self powered buzzer with a built in LED. Happy flying!

Just got your lantern lamp ;-)

Thank you!

dito

Thanks a lot and happy flying!

My pleasure :-)

Thanks Eyal.

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks a lot. True - for a long range setup I definitely recommend to add a self powered buzzer.

Thanks! Let me know how it goes.

You're welcome!

Thanks! Good luck! 🤞

My pleasure. Thanks for watching!

Have fun!

 @KremerFPV  thanks

That's a nice idea, but not that easy to implement unfortunately :-)

 @KremerFPV  agreed..... but dji seem to be able to do anything.

Yes, it can save a lot of time and trouble :-)

Hi, thanks for sharing. Please do you know if it works with neo 6m gps?

Hello Gal, I have a question regarding BN-220 module. I have install it into my Nazgul5v2 (SucceX-E F4 V2.1 S009636) via cable with 2 plugs on both sides. Plug socket in my FC has got 5V and unfortunately GPS is power up only with Lipo attached. If I will change it to 3,3V pad will it be possible to power up this GPS module via USB? Thank you in advance.

I've got problem with GPS on my new Rekon35 (M80 GPS). Plugged batteries and yellow GPS icon in Betaflight turned on, but "3D fix: False" without any satelites. I disconnected and went outside for 10minutes, still with 0 satellites. What I 've missed/been doing wrong?

Hi there, i am planning to put the BN880 to my Protek 35 FPV. But I realized the FC (Beast F7 55A V2.2 AIO (BMI270) 25.5x25.5) does not have the SDA & SCL slot. I wonder where should the SDA and SCL wire on the BN880 be soldered on? 

I plan to use the BN880 instead of the BN220 because I want the compass function as I keep getting lost in the forest...

What frame is that, seems like a t-motor but the placement of the XT60 and carbon plate looks custom made.

I vont it. I vont GPS rescue and a vont light 👍 👍

The way you say Controller makes me angry. But great Video

I have a question: How does the flight controller or the gps know, how hight the drone was/is? or how high it should fly? Thanks Gal for the great video :)

any idea why dron is flying in wrong direction after switch on gos rescue mode ? during bf setup dron is showing direction correctly

Please review  iFlight Protek25 set of FPV.... please,....

Hi, I saw your review on how to mount the GPS module on the drone.  I have a visuo xs 816 model and I would like to know if it is prepared for setting up the GPS module as described in your video

Excellent video.... I want to install a GPS in my DIATONE Roma F4/6S MAMBA AIO F411 35A 20 mm., but in the diagram, the F/C doesn't have a place where to connect the GPS.... please help.  Thank you.

💲👍💲👀💲🇭🇷💲

Hopefully DJI will get off their butts with the next firmware update and allow us to record the GPS data within the goggles.

How can I know the ideal baud rates for my gps? DH1568 from IFLGHT.

Does the necessity to do new GPS calibration for each new flight?

thank you  for the informative video. if you wish GPS rescue to kick in when you loose receiver connection or by flipping an aux switch when you loose video, do you need at all to change the "Failsafe Switch Action" configuration to stage 2?  or that drop down list with stage 1, 2 or kill is for a specific switch you would setup? thanks again

I setup BF rescue and all works fine except when I turn OFF my TX  BF doesn't recognize FS even though throttle drops to 885 and RX set to "no pulse". In Inav it works, parachute turns red.  Any ideas?  Using TX16S & XM plus   Thx!

In channel fallback settings your aux4 {gps recuse] what will happen during flight if you left it on HOLD instead of 1500? I also watched so many other videos with people leave on HOLD and it still RTH when switch is activated.
Also you set 50m altitude... so if your quad is say at 50m already when failsafe kicked in will it go to 100m alt? When you said your height on this video I couldn't hear if you said 15 or 50. Thanks in advance.

is it normal that my GPS OSD always show 14 satellites? when even there is no GPS fix?

https://youtu.be/qOZUNT4q1WU The one in the GPS tutorial is a slightly updated version.

Haha :-)

Well it is what it is... Thanks :-)

My pleasure. As far as I know - If the flight controller has a built in barometer, it will use it, if not - the GPS data will be used.

Does the home arrow show the right direction?

 @KremerFPV  I have gps level as drone on the back and compas during the flight is not showing proper direction so I switched off the magnetometer and all is working fine :)

I will try to but I am not sure if it will happen.

Hi, it's not possible.

Thank you! Sorry for the late reply. Did you get it sorted out?

I have something coming as a temporary workaround until they will make it happen.

 @KremerFPV  Interesting and look forward to it.  I posted something similar on the DJI Forum and someone responded that a usb-c to HDMI dongle might work.  I'm not an engineer so I have no idea if that's feasible or not.

I am not familiar with this GPS specifically, but I suggest setting it to 57600.

No, but the GPS lock might take more time when moving to a new spot.

My pleasure. You can either set up an AUX channel that will trigger the GPS rescue mode or the failsafe option (And then set the failsafe to GPS rescue).

That's strange. Did you figure it out?

You can leave it on "Hold". These fallback settings are only going to be used for a few milliseconds (I think that I went over it in the video). 
The 50m value is not relative - so the drone will rise (or descent) to that height when starting to head back home.

No - it's a bug in the DJI HD FPV system.

Hi,what flight controller did you use?
Thanks Rick

I have a question, i want to add gps to my protek35, but the only free 5V out and ground is on the vtx. Should i use that, or can i connect two things to one uart?

hi gal. any idea why my gps home distance in osd only changing every 3second or more. example, after take off it show 5meter. and stuck in 5 meter until 3 second change to 20meters, next 3second change to 40meter. i cannot see the exact distance each meter. how to fix this? i use hglrc m80, mambaf405

Wiring gps on the receiver or vtx?

HI, it's me again. wonder if you have any plant for the new GPS rescue turtorial for betaflight 4.4? I saw lots of youtube videos about auto landing feature, would like to see your opinion about that.
I did try some test but my quad just disarm in the middle of air.

Does it have a barometer?

Thank you so much Gal. Which the frame do you use in the video?

Great vid until i came across this problem I can't get my gps rescue to set in betaflight, so I have 12 sats, 3d fix is true, and if i go to failsafe tab in betaflight and select as stage 2 to be gps rescue then save and reboot it goes back to drop

Which one better the gps module between beitian BN-220 and hglrc M80?? Thx for your answer,

hello, I have a little mess about when going to fly the quadcopter.  when armin comes out RESCUE_SW warning.  Can you help me?

What should I put the failsafe on in my controller hold, no pulse, custom?

I use betaflight 4.2.11, when i switch gps rescue with aux, quad get rolling like a toilet water, do u have experience with that issue?

Hello Gal, thanks for the video. I have setup my GPS correctly (It works pretty good and also in OSD I can find the ccordinates atc), but I can't find the GPS data in my transmiter (TX16s). Even If I re-discover the sensors. (tbs nano receiver, kakute F7). Do you know what could be wrong, please? (telemetry in BF is enabled)

My iflight FC tells me to use 9600 and not 119200 on the ports tab, but it locks sat very slowly sometimes 20min. Every time... any thoughts?

very good information but a very funny talk rhythm...tatayata..TATAYATA TATAYATA tats Tata Tara 
.🙄🙄🙄

Gps rescue mode in betaflight is the bane of my existance. How can they expect people to set it up without providing a "Setup mode" for gps????

Why are all these youtube channels stating with these unrelated sponsor sections? I really don't like it!

hi, the "m80" is very good but you need the model with battery ... otherwise it does not remember the gps lock and we can not save the changes made with "U-center" ... thank you for your videos always very effective.

Hi Rick. It's an F7 flight controller by T-Motor which is not available yet as far as I know.

Yes, you can use them :-)

Hi, which baud rate are you using? I think that the M80 refresh rate might be a little slow so that's why you are experiencing this issue.

What do you mean?

Hi, please check this video by Limon, one of Betaflight’s dev team member: https://youtu.be/umKfROrX0aE

You can use a flight controller with a Barometer.

It's T-Motor FT5.

 @FilipRadelic  Is correct :-) It's the newer version of this frame: https://youtu.be/qOZUNT4q1WU

That's really strange. It sounds like the GPS is somehow not configured properly. Did you try activating the GPS rescue feature using a switch, just to see that it works?

 @KremerFPV  i have figure it out 99% people don't fly 3d well betaflight won't let you use gps rescue when you have 3d enabled because the throttle position  is different and might cause drone to go mental 😉

I am going to compare some GPS options soon, but as far as I know out of the two the M80 is better.

 @KremerFPV  oke thx for your information

Hi, did you configure the GPS rescue on a switch?

 @KremerFPV  It turned out that I did the wrong switch configuration on the remote. 😅

No pulse

 @KremerFPV  my GPS recovery works about 3 out of 5 times. If  I turn it on flying to fast would that cause it to death roll

 @KremerFPV  what would we do for express elrs? its no such option

Ok ty for the time and info

Which GPS are you using?

 @KremerFPV  hglrs m80

Hi Peter, my pleasure. Can you discover any of the other sensors (Rx bat and etc.)? 
Which CRSF TX are you using?

 @KremerFPV  Thanks for a response Gal, Yes I can discover 10 sensors, including RXbat (ca 4.8V), but cant get f. e. batery voltage, gps atc...Using TBS micro TX module (uart 3 for gps and uart 6 for receiver at Kakute f7)

That's way too long. Have you tried setting the baud rate to 57600?

Beware of the DVR unit, it interferes a lot with the gps. I have had a lot of problems with the Chimera 4 and a tarsier caddx, change the gps of the site and avoid that the cables of the GPS and RX pass near the DVR.
Now I fly smoothly with 15 satellites OK.

I had it set to the 119200 setting and it didn’t work at all, so I googled the manual of the FC and it said the GPS setting should be 9600. I’ll try 57600 and see if it works. The GPS is a BN-880 with compass, but I only have the gps portion wired up to the FC. I tested returned to home once and it worked so I know it’s all hooked up properly, it’s just the waiting. 
I don’t have the on board DVR, it’s just a Vista and I’m using the DJI controller.

 @DivergentDrones  Alex is correct, normally other electronics such Action cameras, DVR and similar can create interference. If you connect only the GPS without the Vista, do you get a quicker fix?

Well it is what it is...

It’s still not working 100% well.

This is the first time that I am doing it and I won't accept any implicit video sponsorship from an FPV related vendor from obvious reasons.

 @KremerFPV  I totally understand that and can see the reason why you and others do it and this video is very informative on the gps part! However, it's kinda annoying to click on a fpv page and end up listening about torches, games and woodburners etc! There's enough ads on youtube as it is!!

Hi there, thanks a lot. I doubled checked it with HGLRC as it also seemed to me strange that it doesn't appear to be using a battery and it is using one (under the antenna cover), so it has a built in battery for saving last coordinates and other settings.

 @KremerFPV  
ok, but mine only works at 57600 baud and when I set it up with "u-center", it doesn't save changes ... maybe a default ... thank you for your answer

