Hey everyone, for the silver printed propellers, I should have spun them in the clockwise direction, since they are clockwise blades. But luckily the tones that I demonstrated stay the same.

As a submarine sonar tech we would analyze the effects except the propeller or screw is in water. One of the first things you learn is how to turn count a merchant using just aural and then using the equipment on board to pick out the individual frequencies, so you can see how many blades the ship has and it's rpm and with some rough turns per knot calculations you can get an estimate of speed

A similar concept is also used in car tires: The tread blocks have slightly different sizes to spread out the rolling noise over a wider frequency range.

A lot of this discovery and research was done way back in the 40s, but the only thing that was important was efficiency and thrust, not noise. Now it's being re-researched and re-discovered all over again because the focus has now changed to noise :) interesting

I want this but for my fan by my bed 👍

i accidentally noticed this while making my first rc plane when i had to stack 2 double props to the motor.I had to find a good angle between those blades ,so i just held the motor in my hands and feel the vibration and noise. some how a 15 degrees angle works best for the least noise and vibration

The issue I'd imagine with the counterbalanced propellers is that there would be an uneven torque on the bearings caused by unequal "lift", even though there is a balanced centripetal force.

One needs to measure thrust too, I believe the thrust will be less for the uneven spaced = more power needed to get same lift/thrust. This needs to be taken into account rather than RPM. I would measure thrust vs sound rather than sound vs rpm. Interesting though how the freq is lower! A larger slower propeller is more efficient than a smaller faster prop too, so diameter makes a difference too.

Actually, while M.I.T. is getting the credit, I believe Sharrow Marine (Gregory Sharrow - 2012) invented the design.  He has a very fascinating story of why and how he developed it.  He was a videographer and wanting to video an orchestra, quietly, while using a drone - he developed the Sharrow prop.  Look him up.

I remember when cars had (engine driven) radiator fans with uneven blade spacing in the '70's.  As is so often the case- what's old is new!

Now I get why the Apache's tail rotor is designed as it is.

Car manufacturers have known this for a long time, radiator cooling fans often have uneven spacing on the blades for noise reduction.

I love that you are comparing FDM printed props to FDM printed props. Surface finish also plays a role in perceived loudness of a propeller.

Channels like yours are the best part of YouTube. I always learn cool stuff from you!

I'd be interested to see a staggered toroidal blade, just to see if there's any benefits.  Toroidal blades themselves are nothing special, they're just a duct integrated into the blades themselves.  But there may be interesting occurrences when the toroid is staggered, due to how the blade contorts in 3D space.  I'd also be curious to see both the uneven and staggered blades within a normal duct.  Maybe Tom Stanton could eventually do a video or series on these.

Cannot tell you how bad I've been wanting a detailed review of this! You read my mind!

Now we need to try a single counterbalanced toroid prop

That propeller seen better days

I suggest you consider measuring power consumption to windspeed, rather than rpms to windspeed, since different sound profiles also have different efficiency profiles. A quieter blade may not provide as much force per rotation, but it may also spin up more easily due to less turbulence.

I watched Rober’s video and thought the blades were extremely interesting. Thanks for making this video.

Recommendation for better 3D printed Finnish 
-Increase  temperature of the nozzle 
-Slow down print speed 
-Smaller layers

 @davee1471  this was also really disturbing for my ocd

Didn't you notice while measuring the wind speed that it pushes instead of pulling air? Or did you just flip it on the other side? (which would work just the same). I noticed that when you stopped the engine it appeared as spinning backwards and I thought the frame rate is to blame, or the engine had a kick-back before it stopped.

​ @christmassnow3465  99

 @christmassnow3465  The air was just fine. When mounted backwards a prop still works, blows air in the same direction, just inefficiently. This happens occasionally with model airplanes. The plane will actually launch and fly, but feel weird right from the start, so the pilot lands and finds the error.

You should also have equalised the current draw, not the speed. The wider spaced propeller would produce more lift for a given speed.

 @WarwickAllison  exactly what i was thinking - does increasing rpm increase power consumption.

I would be happy to help you model and try some SLA printed blades akin to something zipline has showed. I have been testing props for over a decade now, and I have a 9 inch prop that can almost make 2KgF that would be good to compare to.

If you designed the blade angle and gap well for a specific operating rate of rotation, you could even make it so that the pulses from the 2 blades cancelled each other out due to destructive interference, in a given direction, ie down to the person receiving the delivery.  This is basically the same concept as beamforming in Wifi5 router, or in DishyMcFlatFace, except that the intent is to form the beam 90 degrees to the receiver.  So, try tuning your distance and angles, do a little math with the speed of sound and your fundamental frequency.

The blade spacing shouldn't affect the acceleration of the airflow?  The shape, pitch, and length should be the factors that have an effect on flow speed.  Also, the distance from the blades and where on the disk the windspeed is measured would have an effect on results.

Hey, do you know something about static and dynamic fan blade balancing techniques?

I'd presume they're quieter at the same level of lift as well as RPM, but I'd like to see if you lose efficiency with this design.

Could someone please explain what is the faint almost subliminal "music" or dinging sound in the background? I've been noticing this on quite a few youtube videos lately. Is it done purposely? I'm beginning to wonder if I should start wearing my tinfoil hat again. 
Great video (and comments) by the way. Noise reduction is becoming more and more important these days.

Wouldn't the tacho read incorrectly because it is assuming the blades are evenly spaced?

Hey

What equipment are you using to record the propellers sound?

ah

Noise reduction is welcome, but what about lift per rpms with the different blades? Thanks

One detail you missed was the fact that lower frequencies travel further in the air.  So even if it's quieter near the drone, that drone will be heard from further away.

Did someone try to use a speaker to send noise cancellation waves?

So whats the most silent one by now?

you should also have explained the formula at 2:19 -> 1240 revoltion per MIN means -> 20.67 per sec. * 4 blades and you get 82.67! Also there are some eroors in all the blade geometries: The frequency gets halved compared to a 4 blade prop because when you narrow the distance to two opposite pairs each pair basically acts like a single, hence half the frequency or the same as a 2blade prop at the same speed. 
Furthermore in the mit prop comparisson you show it is NOT a 2 blade prop (2 toroids), but a 4 blade prop with connected tips! And of course a 3 toroid= 6 blade prop would be quieter than a 2 blade prop, because it has to spin about only a third as fast to get the same lift, so it would be quieter anyway without considering the wing tip turbulence!

Wow, that's amazing!

Now leak some confidential document to prove your claim.😂

 @rakib9420  😮😂 lol

 @rakib9420  What do you think this is, the Warthunder forums? 😂

 @rakib9420  Ouchies.

sub screws/props are covered in bags/tarps/etc while they're in dry dock to conceal the acoustic signature of the sub. i bet the US, if they havent been using toroidal props, is scrambling to silence their new subs or existing fleet with toroidal props soon ;)

 @Neeboopsh  nah we moved on to pumpjets starting with the sea wolf and then with the virgina class and all their blocks types. But maybe for smaller suvs it would prove useful

 @Neeboopsh   - toroidal type props have been examined a few times since the edit -1890s.  Most of the time any benefits get priced out of the market.

 @Neeboopsh Toridal props aren't that novel an idea.  I strongly suspect that the us navy considered and rejected the toridal configuration because of issues of efficiency or cost or maintenance.

I knew that from reading papers on audio principles and playing some sub simulators.
Destin from SmarterEveryDay made a video IN a submarine asking the crew about just that, and he was stamped with the [Confidential] seal.
That led me to ask "Wait,... how is this 'confidential'? It's out there everywhere... why you so worried about disclosing it?"
and then it hit me: if they admit to doing that specifically, anyone running a hostile military operation would intentionally alter their sound profiles to fool submarines.
the navy would be listening to the mistakes an enemy would make when trying to avoid the navy's sonar... but if they're specifically using sonar by-the-book, then the enemy would outright avoid the sonar principles and try something else.

Interesting. My Grandpa used to do submarine production (specifically VII-C boats) here in Kraut land during The War. According to him, a mold maker accidentally invented the German version of the dampened prop by badly patching a casting mold. That led to a cold join in the brass of the prop, and that in turn screwed up the harmonics.  Nobody said anything because they didn't want to get sent to the camps for "sabotage", and at builder's trials they discovered that that boat's left screw didn't "sing" in the usual rpm range. In fact, it didn't audibly sing *at all*.

 @littlegrabbiZZ9PZA  A laminated metal prop.....that would never ring like a solid cast bell.

 @littlegrabbiZZ9PZA  Did they make more of those? Nice story!

Can easily be fooled with recordings of the vechical you wish to replicate...using the proper transducers that will also add thumps and wash noise😶

Give Me A Ping, Vasili. One Ping Only

​ @sailingeric - ping - pong ;)

See “Hunt for Red October”.  This is also why the propellers on military vessels are seldom shown when out of the water.  This is also a clue as to why our Special Forces destroyed their crashed helicopter.

​ @alveydoug - maybe, some of them don't have a prop... there is a frame covered with cloth, that simulates the prop.. ;)

​ @alveydoug - they destroy helicopters, but F-117 no... why?

That's insane, I can't imagine trying to decipher information like this under pressure

So, let's say, sonar Expert should be a pretty musical person...to know how to catch the rythm...nice..  ;)

Can you ever retire? That sounds to legit to be able to quit it.

That's cool; thank you!

That's wild!

I guess prop design is about rpm vs thrust, all the hush hush crap is about nothing but who knows what at what time, back to rpm vs thrust, to get out of the way, lol.

Very interesting,  thanks!  🇦🇺

I remember this being mentioned, now it all makes sense now

True when tires were first introduced the were quite loud so engineers had to make treads in a specific pattern to combat the high frequency noise generated by the tire

really?.....huh...never thought of that. cool!

I did not know that!

I gained knowledge from you, thanks

Yup, because over a certain speed the vast majority of noise coming from a vehicle is actually down to the tyres rather than its engine. It's something electric car companies have had to tackle too - since without an engine noise to begin with, the road-tyre noise takes effect from the very start. This requires unique tyre tread designs specifically meant for electric cars, to make them quiter since the occupants and outside pedestrians can notice these irritating and distracting sounds much more easily.

Personally I like to drive jeeps so the sound of the tires drowns out the human sounds

Cool, thanks for the tidbit

Apple also does this with their cooling fans, so they create white noise rather than a specific pitch.

Edit: He does mention cooling fans in the video.

been used on truck radiators since the 60s

😲😲😲😲😲😲😲😲

Thanks for that

Nitto Mud Grapplers have entered the chat

Modern car radiator fans also have different widths and spacing for the same reason

And running over different road surfaces can create music.

 @ToughAncientSpark  a Tom Scott viewer

 @ToughAncientSpark  totally unrelated to the comment and the video, but true. It depends on more factors than the road tho

You really notice thos with knobbly tires that have equal regular blocks.

It's like you notice the tick tick tick regular sound far more than the sort of sticky stchhhhhh sound of regular tread

 @arg31ify  Tick tock of a clock, vs. the white noise of static!

Oh and to add on to this. The pattern should NEVER repeat or else the resonance … (train of thought crashed in a horrible explosion. I forgot the rest. The unga-bunga- cavemen stone notepad survived. It reads: wheel pattern bad. No pattern good.

 @Filcayra72  Resonance necessarily requires something to resonate. If there is nothing to resonate, then nothing resonates regardless of the frequency of the sound source. This means that you can remove the resonant sounds simply by removing or adjusting the things that could resonate and still have a regular pattern.

That's what my thoughts were with all these 'new' blade discoveries and invention claims popping up everywhere. I swear I have seen the oval and halo blades years and years ago because of the reduced turbulence being researched, same goes with the counterweighted looking set zipline drones have.
It always boils down to money and I guess we have electric motors that are now efficient enough that the losses in lift/thrust don't outweigh the luxury comforts of noise.

My guess is it has something to do with the patent expiring?

 @Zebra.Lionfish  Yeah, exactly.

​ @Zebra.Lionfish - most efficient prop is single blade, with counterweight;) ...slow rpm

 @Zebra.Lionfish  perhaps also now that it's much easier to manufacture the unconventional designs. Which I guess then also comes down to cost.

Back in the day people thought that someone has invented bad propellers since all of the weird types are SO MUCH WORSE in their primary job. But for civilian drones the noise levels are way more important than efficiency.

Was going to write the same. Noise has become more important in the last years, but not efficiency in terms of thrust was still number one. Now it seems that the discussion is including noise as an additional important parameter, even to the point of trading some thrust for less noise.

Yes, but we get alot more power output from our powerplants now than we were able to historically, so the previous research can be applied particularly in areas where it wasnt possible before with more power, synthetic material, computer machining and maybe more advanced techniques to test without actually building full scale speeding up the process. Another thing was to have a leading edge surface coating to cool the passing air increasing its density, but it had frequency restrictions

 @f1reguy587  Do we now have leading edge surface coatings to cool passing air?

Proof not 1 thing is the best at everything.

I love the fact that the aerofoil section used on the front wings of F1 cars has a NACA designation, meaning it was designed around 100 years ago.

It's cool
It's like different times different needs

Not just that, but manufacturing capabilities and analysis/optimization techniques have caught up, and now you can win on all three at the same time vs conventional.

 @microcolonel exactly q😅😊

 @microcolonel  He showed the thrust output was less.

０．０

For those of you with window a/c units here's a tip. At night when it cools down you can use the fan function to bring in cool outside air instead of running the a/c all night. Some nights where it's abnormally hot you might have to keep the a/c running longer. But most of the time the fan pulling in the cooler air (especially if you're upstairs) works really well.

 @ThePrufessa  This is the most full of nonsense comment chain ever maybe. That’s not what the fan on a window unit does. It just recirculates the air in the room. And oxygen doesn’t disappear because you moved it in circles.

​ @ThePrufessa  lol we have 50°c summers 🥵 even during night is like 40°c

 @ThePrufessa  thats only really a good idea in the southwest usa maybe? here in the north it might get cooler but the humidity climbs so high you'll turn your room into a cold swamp. If you don't mind that though, I guess it's fine.

I have grown found of the white noise created by my fan when I sleep, it helps drown out other sounds that would wake me, around the house.

Nah man white will help you sleep better at night and you’ll also miss small sounds that might wake you up!

I like the sound the fan makes

fr but i lowkey enjoy the sound of it, it sounds so weirdly quiet when it’s not on

​ @sushiccino  of course it's not on😂

I second that desire!

@Aham  ok well then ignore what I said. My message goes out to those that live in places that can take advantage of the free cool air. I live in Detroit and I'd say about 85% of the summer I can use the fan to suck in cooler air at night.

@James A  first of all I've been doing this with my window unit for SEVERAL YEARS now. So what you're saying doesn't go with what my experience is. And I'm just trying to share my experience with anyone that's able to use this advice. But the bottom line is what you said about the fan function is completely false. There's no other reason for that pretty weak fan on there but to suck in cool air instead of using the actual a/c. Which is basically free compared to how much it costs to power the a/c.

But how will you sleep if you can’t hear the fan?

Alex nah I like the noise

Ok

The fan noise is best part.

Just get the Arctic Summair, if you want quiet that's what you want, PC cooling has already mastered inaudible cooling fans.

Last time i checked a fan blew air and a vacuum sucked air

😂😂😂😂

What's the matter you don't have air conditioning

@ManyHeavens42  What's the matter? Your generation never learned how to write a sentence? I know you aren't necessarily known for your literacy but you guys are just sad...

Buy Dyson without blades

No you don't trust me I got one of those Dyson fans and switched it to the old one real quick and noticed it's the noise my subconscious wanted 😅

Yeah and while you are sleeping its great to get someone to throw poop into the blades to give you sweet dreams!

Take your bed to rawanda.

It's not a good idea to blow a fan on you while you're sleeping. It can suck out the oxygen and cause you to suffocate and die in your sleep.

 @kg4boj  Ok

 @kg4boj  I sleep with 3 fans blowing on me and I'm still not dead after 20+ years

 @kg4boj  absolute nonsense. This is the 'fan death' urban legend.

That's really cool. I reckon a lot of things were discovered like that. Accidentally. Thanks for sharing your experience and knowledge 👍

 @TheZombieSaints  Leaf branches and insect wing veins often show up around 15 degrees.  Also crystals like calcite and quartz have internal angles close to 15 degrees apparently.  Don't know if that means much in context, but it's something. :)  Divides evenly into 45 and 90 so it makes sense there's probably some correlation between 15 and what we typically engineer at 90 and 45.

Interesting. I don’t know a thing about aerodynamics but 15 degrees is 1/24 of a circle and 24 has lots of ways to factor it so intuitively I wonder if this allows for a lot of different harmonics.

Very interesting. Birds flying in a V formation use the lift from the lead birds wing tip vortices to conserve energy. Makes me wonder if the birds sit at a 15 degree angle behind the lead bird similar to the double stacked props 🤔

The 13 1/2 foot diameter, four-blade propellers used on the Convair 580 airliner's two Allison enginess had a synchronization feature that matched more than the exact speed of the two propellers.  In cruise flight, it would adjust the passage of the blades so that the blades on the right engine propeller rotated fifteen degrees behind the blades of the left propeller, all as the props spun at 1,020 rpm.  This was done to--you guessed it--reduce propeller noise in the passenger cabin.  Each time a propeller was removed and replaced the mechanics would re-time the angle between the two propellers by adjusting tachometer generators on the reduction gear boxes.  As far as I can recall some fifty years later, nobody ever asked why the phase angle that worked best was fifteen degrees.

Hands on learning is the best learning 🙂

it’s sophisticated science which can start with try and error but I am waiting until the first will go back to combustion engine again also for drones

for a tiny drone its not a problem, but probably thats why you wont see it on a helicopter

 @peterheinzo515  There are few helicopters flown with one blade before actually

I wonder if gyroscopic precession could reduce the force you’re talking about?

 @danielfp5253  wrote "I wonder if gyroscopic precession could reduce the force you’re talking about?"
I'm not sure I understand what you mean.
It was my understanding that gyro. precession relates to the resistance of a spinning body to move out of its existing orbital plane and into another, or for it to want to move into another plane because of external forces applied to it (such as moving its axis).  How would that relate to a hypothetical asymmetrical propeller being prone to producing uneven forces?

Yes, the propeller will be statically balanced, but not dynamically. But I guess that's a tradeoff they are making.

GREAT point!   Balance left-right is not same as perpendicular torque on shaft!

There are a lot of airplanes, that do not change rpm of the motor, but increase/decrease Speed by changing the props angles... ;) ...think about that... actually, more than otherwise...

As far as I understand it, on heli's, especially gyrocopters, a quarter or half the rotor disk is involved in actual lift during forward flight. One would think that that would put a torque on the shaft, but i think its gyroscopic force keeps it balanced.

​ @ChrisvanHemert - You are right... and one needs to know, that most of the propellers on the aircraft, need to change pitch (angle of attack).. on the helicopter, airplanes and gyros.. and in a different manner... ;)

Nah, axial load and thrust bearings have come a LONG way in the last 100 years. And, helicopters have pitch control on their blades and the blade that is cutting into the wind in the forward direction when the vehicle is moving forward receives more lift than the blades going backwards when the vehicle is moving forwards. So, not an issue.

I make one and it works flawlessly, check it out. Actually, you can't fill the torque. Check with "DIY Zipline silent propeller. It works!"

What about if you not only have a counterweight opposite to the blades to cancel out their mass, but also tilt that counterweight somewhat back behind the plane of the blades? Now it still counterbalances the centrigual force of the lift blades but centrifugal force will try and fling the counterweight not only out, but also forward toward the plane of the blades. This could provide a bending moment on the shaft opposite to that caused by the lift forcesof the props. It wouldn't be perfect but as both propeller lift force and centrifugal force are proportional to velocity squared, it could be balanced in both lift and shaft bending force for say, operation at sea level.

with a long enough driveshaft and proper bearing design this should not be an issue.

Is the counter weight a lifting surface at all? I feel like it would have to be for efficiency reasons but I don't know offhand

 @WhoIsTheEdman  The counterweight does not appear to be a lifting surface.

 @WhoIsTheEdman  the zipline version looks like it is

You could balance the lift by increasing/decreasing the length/pitch of individual blades of the propeller. Once you have that balanced, you can counterbalance the blades, also. It would definitely be a more involved process, but not impossible. 

That said, it obviously won’t solve every potential problem, and allow these blades to he applicable to every situation.

This is only true if the counterbalance is only balanced in the horizontal dimension – meaning, its weight is meant to replace the weight of the blade. But this doesn't have to be the case here.

While the mass needs to be equal to the blades on the other side to avoid vibrations, the distance doesn't matter. So you can counterbalance the uplift "tilt" created by the blades in hover by moving the weight inwards making the blades (if you think in a tilting motion) look heavier than the weight on the other side. But as the mass is equal they will rotate without any vibrations.

 @RubenKelevra  I didn't say anything about distance. I understand the vibration is  nullified. Unfortunately, there's an imbalance in actual lift, as there must be. The extra wear on bearings may or may not be negligible, but it is not zero.

I believe TiTans of CNC recently did a video on the company that actually machines those propellers for him as well.

 @roberterbes  Indeed.  The real-world results on the boats are impressive.  I know it is a massive process to manufacture propellers for large cargo vessels, and was trying to imagine a Sharrow Marine prop on a vessel like Ever Given.  From what I have read, the fuel savings due to efficiency gain is something like 5-8% - that would be a lot of fuel savings for the shipping industry.

Video is called "nobody in the world could machine these difficult parts"

 @roberterbes  TY - I follow Titans of CNC (I'm from CA and knew of him before he moved to TX).  I took a road trip (to visit family in TX and stopped by his new shop.  Great people.  That is a good video.

MIT is also trying to take the credit for the first ion propelled aircraft without an externally tethered power supply.  On my channel there are more than 40 videos of a previously patented version, with onboard power, that is also much more efficient.

Yep, distinctly remember the asymmetric 7 blade fan bolted to the engine of my first car.. 
In my first year learning mechanics I was so curious I had to ask about it, and discovered the reason was for noise/harmonics.

Now more than a decade later I'm left still wondering why it isn't used in other situations - like bathroom exhaust fans, kitchen stove extractors or even PC cooling fans.

 @MotoCat91  Especially so in cases where power and efficiency aren't really a limit, like with all of those examples you gave. There I would I happily give up some extra space and power to reduce noise.

​ @MotoCat91  maybe the design was patented?

Yeah, I’ve seen that on my dad’s impala and wondered why it was like that!

Yea.. I have noticed that. But they still have very rought edges.. I guess they are ducked so it don't matter

when manufacturing variance becomes a feature

everything is a trade off... power, efficiency, stability. we had similar results with large RC helicopters. the fastest most aerobatic helicopters were all 2 blade designs... but the heavy lifting quiet models were always multi bladed rotors with up to 5 or 6 blades... which meant they ran slower rpms but generated less tip vortices, but since they had more blades within the same rotor diameter they had more lift. There was once an experimenter that used a single rotor blade with a counter weight as well, it can be found here on YT. the toroidal design is simply merging two blade types ... swept back tip with a lead tip... if there was any benefit to the design dont you think the NAVY would be using it on their Subs?  There is also another YTuber that has a drone that uses multi bladed rotors that resemble computer fans... very quiet and very effective... he too tried the toroid design... but it couldn't compete with the multi blade. a more current test of these blades is an eye opener... toroidal are not more efficient power wise and they are heavier, they are just quieter compared to high performance rotor blades...  check out: Toroidal Prop Testing: Is this the future of FPV propellers?! by Chris Rosser

 @renaissanceman5847   - many single blades have been used on all types of craft  (air and water)- it is the most efficient, though the lower the rotor solidity the lower the maximum power absorbed by the disk.  More blades (in the same or adjacent planes) cause more wake interference drag, reducing efficiency - as you said, everything is a tradeoff.

Usually, if the diameter can be increased more power can be transferred to the system more efficiently, otherwise using wider blades, increased pitch or higher numbers of blades - and fancy tip treatment is the answer (heavily loaded tips (nearly always) increase noise - prime numbers reduce harmonics.

Yes the "toroid" is a spinning duct - check out some patents from edit: 1890s (sorry I remembered wrong) and 1960s to see how the concept was developed.  (Charles Meyer+ J. Davies and David Sugden are some names to use in patent searches.US467322A  US467824A  US3504990A - may be defined as prior art to the more recent designs.
(David B Sugden did a bit of work with a certain - number of- Boring machine(s)  totally tedious -jk....)

The navy is keeping their props secret tho arent they?

 @renaissanceman5847  

The main thing concerning toroidal propellers is that their advantages shine in a hydrodynamic environment when their blades are shaped and optimized for displacing water, but they lose all their advantages in trying to adapt the toroidal shape to be effective in the air since the aerodynamic requirements changes the shape that originally made them effective, the asymmetric propeller is to the air what the toroidal blades are to the water.

The navy doesn't delve into these types of props because they frankly don't need to, they have similarly effective means to achieve efficiency and silent operation where it matters.

Funnily enough, I did mention to Tom about toroïdal blades. Let's see if he takes note...

Toroidal blades are not the same as ducted propellers which is what a naive person could easily be mislead into believing by your statement.

 @igrim4777  if you really look a it... a multi blade toroidal is no different than a ducted fan with both forward swept and backward swept blades... with the duct spinning with it

I was thinking also about “less efficient” due to needing to spin faster. If less efficient means draw less current, it seems to me that a faster blade with the same amount of resistance would require the same amp draw by the motor. Wouldn’t the resistance be the same to reach the same wind velocity? Of course, there could be a change in resistance if the motor creates more internal friction at higher speed, or other incidental differences at higher speed, but it seems to me that it would be very insignificant. Why do wind generators have only 2 blades, and turn slowly? First thought would be to have many blades, like the old farm windmills, and spin faster. But speed doesn’t generate electricity, the 2 blades generate enough torque(?) to spin the generator at its optimum speed through gearing. I’m not an expert engineer, so I might have used incorrect words, but overall am I right?

​​​ @jazzdad52 less efficient means it has to work harder to do the same work. Thus spinning faster to move the same air. Most likely using more current to move the same air.

Normally spining a motor faster requires more current. No matter the resistance of the prop it still requires more current.

I’d actually do power consumption to thrust as well as wind speed, since thrust is the factor actually defining the performance of the propeller. From wind speed and thrust, mass flow rate can be calculated. Since mass flow rate is one of the few constants in a propeller, it’s the best way to quantify performance absent of this test environment, and it can be used to recalculate thrust in different circumstances.

 @ProteinFromTheSea  It seems the long way around, to me. Slapping a Kill-A-Watt inline seems infinitely easier unless you're setting up a full lab.

I just made one that is silent and the consumption is actually low but the win speed is low in comparison to a normal propeller. Check it with "DIY Zipline silent propeller. It works!"

Bingo

wow that was on my mind looking for a video

5:01 that one mosquito when i try to sleep

I just started looking up information on how to make quieter propellers as well as for air fluid dynamics sim programs for testing propellers a few hours ago. Impressively good timing.

Someone needs to turn this into a fan for the fan showdown on major hardwares channel

Props to you on this analysis 😊

Wow, very impressive in so many ways!   Thanks!   Two sideways questions -- with all the talk about the noise, the actual generated "lift force" (at a given rotational speed) got a bit a brush-off until some quick attention at about the 8:40 to 9:45 mark, where the "wind speed" was measureed.   Similarly, the electrical input power kind of got the brush-off, meaning for a given rotational speed, when e.g. comparing traditional blades with "offset" blades, were the motors using the same volts and same amps vis a vis power?   Comparisons might be unfair if the electrical power input was higher for one case than the other (at a given rotational speed.)    This is one of the best channels on all of YouTube...wish our high school science classes were far more like the Action Lab.

Look at the tail rotor of the AH-64 Apache

Brilliant Video. Thank you Sir.  Your videos are excellent at quickly distilling to real terms for understanding.  I applaud your hands on demos for sure!  Cheers

Definitely one of the best channels on youtube. Could watch these videos all day.

I've been thinking about Zipline's weird propellers since I saw that same video. It would be awesome if they decided to make their propeller design open source. It looks like a lot of time and engineering went into it.

You are the best science teacher I've ever had.

Something that would probably help more to reduce noise from drones would be to have variable pitch blades. This would allow all the rotors to be run at the same speed and have them phased in a way to achieve best cancellation of noise between them.  The downside is that it defeats the simplicity of conventional multirotors in which the only moving parts are the motor armatures.
Another approach could be to go the opposite way and have a rotor with many more blades, as in a turbine. With enough blades you could have a fundamental frequency above audible. It will however only work for rather small rotors as even with 50 blades you would need to run at 24,000 RPM which somewhat limits the allowable diameter. The efficiency will probably not be too good either but the sound would be like whooshing rather than buzzing or screaming, which might be less annoying even at the same sound level.  Dogs and other animals may have a different opinion though.
There are also ways of combining with stators with different number of blades that allows a much higher fundamental frequency for a given number of blades, a technique used in many gas turbine engines to reduce noise, at least the noise that is audible to us humans.

FINALLY someone is talking about the propellers.
Iv been scrolling reddit and youtube and twitter to find someone speculating about the propellers.

gives audio test, plays music over test. GENIUS!!!!!!!!!!!

6:45 who knew the biological hazard logo was a genius toroidal prop shape?!

You missed a cool feature of the Zipline propellers: The counter weight.

It's pretty cleverly designed: It's moved inwards, so while the mass of the counter weight is equal to the propellers on the other side, the propellers are rotating downwards - as they are further away from the center. (Their weight has more leverage on the rotation due to a larger distance from the center)

This is necesary because the counterbalance generates no lift. The blades on the other hand will create a upward lift and thus a tipping motion on the bearing. So the counter balance needs to be moved inwards to counter the tipping motion the two blades of the propeller are generating when in hover. By counter I mean, that the propellers create a tipping motion towards them when not hovering. This is equalled out when hovering.

Wow! A video sponsor that's not genuinely involved with the video, but offers a service I might be interested in. Incredible.

The big blades at the front of turbofan engines are typically designed and limited by the speed at its tip, which is also where most of the noise comes from. Previously the limit was around mach 1, but these days it can be exceeded with careful design of transonic airfoils. 

The big difference these blades bring to the table of drones is the noise. Blade spacing is one of the factors affecting that, but it also has to do with the wake interaction of the second blade in the series, which is both affected by the radial and vertical spacing between the two blades.  Just slapping two props one after the other without careful consideration can make the second blade sit in the wake of the first blade. This may cause the second blade to stall reducing its lift and increasing its drag, in a similar fashion how airplanes can get into a deep stall.

An issue these blades may have is damage tolerance, since now only one side of the rotor can take damage, reducing its weight and throwing out its balance. This would lead to vibrations which could take the whole airframe down.

I saw those in the video and wondered why they were shaped like that. Thanks for the video

You sped up the quieter blades to match the air flow by increasing voltage, but the actual power consumed is what you need for calculating efficiency.  You'd also need the current, which will depend on the load on the propellers.  It could be that both approaches use very similar power because the quieter versions disturb the air less and thus have lower load for a higher rate of spin.

That time and engineering work is probably why they won't make it open source. They sure are cool, though!

 @swissfreek  lol these are industry secrets and you can bet on them never being shared

I'm sure it's patented, but anyone could run a similar fluid dynamics analysis/ai and come up with another shape with similar sound profile if they wanted too.  Also, anyone can see what the shape looks like and copy it with a 3d printer if they want too.

 @takanara7  Well, my definition of the word "anyone" might not be the same as yours, haha. But if you do that, more power to you. You will have done the R&D that they did developing their prop design. As for copying the design based on visual inspection and 3D printing it, let me know how that works out. I suspect you'll be doing a lot of trial and error there, too.

These guys didn't invent or discover the principles these props are based on. They took known concepts and adapted them to their needs to come up with a design. Others are free to do the same (you're probably in for a good amount of work), but I can't see any reason Zipline would have an incentive to give the world their IP by making it open source. The engineering work is non-trivial.

​ @takanara7 if it is patented,it is published.  Hobbyists should be able to use it freely.  Just can't make money on it.

Maybe its all just bs? Like they're the first to ever research fan blade design before and found a way to make them silent, yeah ok 😂

 @j4k3z  I don’t think anyone claimed that. But no one flies a drone with props like that

I watched a video last night of an fpv freestyle guy testing different prop designs on his 5” prop quad. When he put 8 blade 3” diameter props it was relatively very quiet while remaining agile and able to accelerate and maintain high speeds. The sounds did go higher in pitch but it wasn’t unpleasant. With two blade 5” it was terrifyingly loud, very high acceleration and top speed, but a little sloppy cornering. Six blades had less power and was noisier than 8. Prop design is interesting.

Just like certain tree seeds when they fall.

These bench top power supplies operate in either constant voltage or constant current mode. Given he changed the voltage, it's safe to assume he was in constant current mode. Therefore, more voltage equals more power, since current is held constant.

​ @Panda_Gibs 
If he's varying voltage manually, it's in constant voltage mode.  Specifically, the voltage he is selecting is held constant.

Some benchtop supplies (I have one) can do both, but then the current setting is an upper limit and it'll drop the voltage (regardless of what voltage you select) until a desired current is drawn, in accordance with Ohm's law.

The point I was getting at is that the resistance of a motor can vary with the load it is experiencing, so just because the voltage goes up doesn't mean the power goes up.

Great video, I've been very curious about this since first coming across Ziplines shorts a year or so ago. Very neat stuff.

It's so convenient having guys like you around to teach me things I didn't know I needed to know. Thanks

One blade and you've got sycamore seeds.

Without hearing any more, I think it's to do with interrupting the cumulative oscillation (superposition, phase reinforcement, whatever you want to call it). The same reason marching soldiers step out of time when crossing a bridge.

Brilliantly presented. I have read several explanations of uneven spacing and torodial props, but none of them mentioned the crucial relationship between frequency and perceived noise level. This was highly useful, as my favourite UAV is deal breakingly noisy. Thank you!

As a U-Controle & R/C hobbyist one of the perks is the propeller noise but the bane of those living close by. I'm fascinated by the sound reduction for our model aircraft and also for boating propeller efficiency and not the sound which is buried in the water. Fishermen may be more interested in the sound reduction though.

Been waiting for a long time for someone to make a video on this after the referenced video!😅

Lose efficiency? Measure the current comparison between the even spaced blades and the uneven spaced blades spinning at a higher RPM. If the current is the same when forcing an equal 3.1 FPS of air flow then efficiency is the same with improved perception in sound reduction.

Wow! This is something I would never consider to look into. Thank you for keeping me engaged in science.

Thank God someone finally got the explanation and examples both RIGHT and easily UNDERSTOOD. Lol the toroidal craze has thrown a wrench in the hobbyist drone industries understanding of blade noise reduction. Chris Rosser is makingg and demonstrating more accurate resin prints to test toroidal props, and it would be amazing to see a colab between you guys on testing the zipline prop!

Need to see this on fan showdown

Awesome analysis. I'm curious whether this would work with cpu or gpu fans given the constraint with the listening position.

Excellent video. I love being able to dip into a 10 minute video on things like this on Youtube, keep it up.

This is a perfect video for teaching the dynamics of sound!!!

Wow that’s amazing

We appreciate your effort and hard work on this channel. God bless you.

Your experiments are always interesting and informative. Thanks for making them.

I'm hearing a new fan for the computer fan competition

Aerospace propulsion Phd student here. The video was pretty good but I wanted to really highlight the elephant in the room. 

The big thing us propulsion engineers care about is THRUST. There’s about a million ways to make jet engines and propellers quieter but all of them so far DRAMATICALLY impact thrust.
For example, you can make a equivalent size propeller to a classic 4 blade propeller (same pitch and diameter etc) that is wayyy quieter like over 10-20 decibels quieter at 10-m, but a lot of times when you then compare the thrust that new propeller makes you realize it doesn’t make enough. So logically you design your novel propeller geometry to generate more thrust… but then once you get to the thrust output of the classic 4 blade you realize it’s only 1-2 decibels quieter and is significantly less efficient at converting mechanical energy into thrust since you’re doing things to mess with the flow… 

So, all that to say I REALLY want MIT and Zipline to actually release their white papers on their novel propeller concepts to see how useful they actually are (Thrust vs noise curves).

Zipline I understand why they haven’t released anything, since they have a market advantage if it’s legit (and it seems legit), but I am a little frustrated with MIT since they’re a research institution (and they’ve only released a hype video and 1 page of real info)…. 

But anyway still really cool stuff but it really remains to be seen if it’s the game changer that everyone has hyped them up to be…

Awesome that you made this video - I've been thinking about those props since I saw the video and was also surprised there wasn't more detail about them. This is revolutionary.

Helicopters!

Torodial trolling motor propellers are something to invest in. I wonder how they would preform in weedy conditions.

 @darrellcook8253  I looked at a video about it, and the toroidal props are hideously expensive for your average boater. I'd love the idea for my R/C boats and the sub, but no-one makes them... YET.
One can only hope...

Cutting down on fan noise would be cool.

That is true. You can see how much less air it moves towards the end of the video. But it would take some more in-depth testing of the full frequency profile to see if the added speed makes it sound louder or not. I didn't have to increase the speed much more to get the same wind speed, so it seems like you would still get the reduced tones with the higher speeds, but then broadband noise is slightly higher as well

 @TheActionLab  I think it was a good educational tool. Doing proper propeller acoustic testing correctly is usually pretty expensive even for the little guys… 

And I’ll tell you that even if you duplicate the setup from a published paper people will almost always complain about your acoustic setup. They’re a pretty particular group of folks…

 @TheActionLab  Be careful not to conflate speed with power.  The goal is to get the most efficient air movement for the lowest power.  MD Helicopters no longer offer either the "Scissor Blade" tail rotors or the Notar because of efficiency and  other issues.  The Notar was quieter than any of these, but also used more power and offered less control (i.e. tail rotor authority), which would have required even more power to fix.  Many large helicopters, especially Russian, have quite a large distance between the two rotor blade pairs of the tail.  This is because in a helicopter ~1/3 of the power is used for the antitorque tail rotor and with larger helicopters the tail rotor diameter approaches that of large WWII fighter and some bomber aircraft, which are very loud.
I suspect the MIT toroidal propeller is very inefficient and weighs a lot, especially scaled up, so it will never be used in production aircraft.  More of the usual MIT "look what we can do" impractical BS.

I bet there is a nontrivial number of use cases where noise is an important design requirement.

 @jdotoz  Yeah, I hope Joshua can fill in what he meant. Surely it's usually mostly a tradeoff between efficiency and noise, at least for commercial applications such as airplanes and drones? The thrust just has to be "good enough". Maybe for a jet fighter you are primarily interested in thrust.

You said it! I ALWAYS think about this fact of inefficiency whenever a small turboprop airplane loudly buzzes by or a helicopter clunks along overhead terrorizing pedestrians and wildlife with all its noise while balancing its ridiculous and barely functional engineering. It reminds me that humanity has only learned to walk as it relates to aviation…unless they work at Lockheed Martin’s Skunkworks and are testing their advanced concepts over the Australian desert. 😉

agreed

Another amazing informative video! Keep it up! 💯 ✨

This is really interesting. The noise has always been an issue to me. Very well presented.

MIT did not create the toroidal propeller a few months ago. The design has existed since the 70s and has been known to be more efficient for that long too. Due to manufacturing difficulty it hasn't been mass produced in all the years though. With the rise of better and more accessible advanced machining capabilities like multiple axis CNCs we might just see them become more common.

Thanks, I was wondering how efficiency was affected. It was actually intuitive in this case!

Are they worried about noise because they are flying in areas that they aren't supposed to be there?

This is quality content. Thanks for asking interesting and niche questions and giving us well read answers. Your videos get me thinking.

I like peanut butter

I remember as a kid, we had a toy, that had a pistol grip winder, where you put a propeller on it, that had a ring going all the way around the outside of the blades, you wound the spring up using the propeller as it clicked while you were turning it, once the spring was tight, you pointed it up in the air, and pulled the trigger, the propeller would fly off for some distance, but I noticed how quiet the propellers were, most likely because of the ring around the outside edge of the blade tips, the propellers also had like a saw tooth shape, on the trailing edge of the blades, that made it quieter as well, perhaps we should revisit these old school toys.

first

This is so confusing yet interesting, it seems counterintuitive that something can be less noisy but at the same time less efficient.

Sadly it doesn't actually check out like you think. The fan showdown showed these designs may be quieter,  but at the cost of less airflow or being heavier. Its a cool principle for attached fans, but not for drones.

Independent testing found the toroidal props so far are far less efficient than regular props, and the noise isn’t actually better either from memory - their video was a bit dishonest.

@6:20 fortunate son intensifies lmao (sounds just like a huey hauling ass in the distance)

Thank you for this video! I've been waiting for someone to notice and tell me how it works!

Its exciting to think about how designs like these will become more and more refined and eventually could be scaled up and applied to helicopters and the like.

Thank you! I was really curious about efficiency comparison.

Just like offset tread on car tires

The AH-64 tail rotor blades are offset like this.

Always mind blowing videos man, unreal.

Finally! More attention on the props!

Cool subject,  just up my alley.  Thanks.

"and has been known to be more efficient for that long too."
It has been around a lot longer and no, they are known for being INefficient but quieter. They have also been in use for nearly that long too.

you mean the 1870s.. - lol,  - oops sorry 1890s, I misspoke..  
US467323A  US467824A  United States  Patent

No it's just a small island and the Zipline drones deliver a ton of supplies across it constantly

???
What are trying to say??

Glad you like peanut butter 👍

No jelly. Jelly is gross.

 @joshuagibson2520  jelly da best fr

Ah dude, it was close

Is your boyfriend impressed?

Well.. not quite true. Maximum air pressure is not lower, but that was never the claim  the over frequency are.

About efficency we still need the real model to test it.

Dude if you were just one of my teachers growing up I know my future would have been brighter.

Nobody:
Mosquitoes: write that down ... Write that down

Very interesting - thanks for the effort!

very nice explanation and demos. thanks

When you're sleeping at night and hear that one mosquito flying around

How does this new propeller compare in terms of "pulling-power" as compared to old fashion ones?

This woild be awesome for box fans

Thank you for addressing this! I've been curious about that ever since I watched Mark Rober's video.

Chris Rosser put out a video about toroidal props today that is also an excellent watch.

Very interesting comparisons! Thanks for making this video.

Would be amazing to see a collaboration between you and Chris Rosser on this topic
We really want ot see innovation on props keep going

Incredibly seamless advert. I was just wondering software what was used to make those simulations.

Yeeesh that first look at that 3d print 🫣

THANK YOU. I couldn't find any info on this, and I was thinking that this could literally be revolutionary for propellers.

THANK YOU.  These propellers not getting explained in the Zipline video was the only downside of said video.

It would be interesting to see the same test on Foxeertech's new toroidal fpv props

Your channel has awesome content. 👍

I love this topic... great video!

Instead of counter rotating props, the noise reduction may work with an uneven number of stationary blades under the working blades forcing air pressure under stationery blades that act like wings.

Nice info, thanks for sharing :)

Because of the speed of a movement of the blades it would also create low pressure above the stationery blades if designed correctly

Nice upgrade to your filming backdrop.

Great video, thank you very much.

Some props on planes can break the sound barrier at the tips.

and  by using different prop angles for each motor you can even spread out the spectrum more.

Gotta be one of your best videos

I know right, this other guy just dropped an ultra quiet propeller like it is nothing and expected nobody would notice. Thanks for digging in and sharing this information

Nicely done review of the blade differences. I liked and subscribed. Hope all your videos are as well done.

I absolutely want this on my paramotor!

6:49 that is looking closer to the propellers of the aircrafts in James Cameron's first avatar movie

I like your new background! Thanks for the video, too.

I, too, reacted to Mark Rober's video with intense curiosity.   I guess it was too intense of a phenomena.  Thanks for looking into it!

Very good and explained video.👍We love that kind of basic experiments.

Action lab is right on the dot. I really wanted to know how these propellers work. Fast work Sir.

Dude. Your channel rocks!

Respect! We just started looking into this with our science outreach program, following playing bagpipes with helium.
Thank you for giving us an INCREDIBLE head start! You Rock.

Beautiful video, with all the references and also perfect sponsor ♥️

Very Informative 😸 nice methodological approach...   thanks

It would be amazing to see this on lawnmower blades

Noise is not the entering argument for a propeller, it is the lift or thrust generated.  This is great basic science!

The mosquitoe at 00:00 when I try to sleep 5:33

Very interesting and informative video. You may be interested in Chris Rosser's video testing toroidal props vs standard fpv drone props. 🤓

There are Limitless possibilities in Science and Engineering Nice Technology.🎉🎉

I knew this propeller from Mark runner video and I w was wondering  it thankyou

Good stuff!  Be interesting to add active noise cancelling.

Some cars/trucks have radiator fans that are essentially a stack of a 2 blade and a 3 blade fan making a balanced fan with 5 blades that are unevenly spaced to lower the frequency of the noise.

thx for the great work ;)

Dude, i'm a big fan of your work in broadening knowledge and increasing understanding of, at times, complex issues.   Thank you.  

What may also aid comprehension is a standardisation of terms: RPM is an abbreviation of Revs Per Minute.  It is colloquially referred to as Rev(olutions)s - revs - but never is it correct to call them RPMs.  And, as they are measured in Minutes, your description of '...to measure the RPMs, s 'how many times is it spinning around per second...' could be clearer to your audience. 

Thanks for making time to read this, and keep up the good work.

Finally somebody made a video about it.

Really great explanations, I'd like to compare ducted fan blades In relation to thrust I heard shrouding the blades can improve thrust, but when considering the extra weight of the ducts  ie. TWR. It would be interesting to compare any advantages because it also kind of protects the blades also allowing the drone/aircraft to get closer to a mountain side or even touch it.

So cool! They look like dragonfly wings+helicopter leaf maple seeds!

My '92 Jeep YJ's 4.0L engine also has unevenly spaced blades. Now I understand  why. Thank you.

I wonder if you added whale inspired lumps to the propeller, it would increase the performance in thrust efficiency & noise reduction.

Yup I really waited for this video

oh i was waiting for this video

it would be interesting to see (or hear 🙂) how they compare to toroidal props...

Yeah I noticed that Propeller too!

really cool new set piece ☆

What about the uneven blade efficiency? Torque and lift? Great Video!

Please recreate this with 2 Toroidal blades and a counterweight. I HAVE TO KNOW! 🙏

Love SimScale :) Use it for my 3D printer fan duct design.

What does it do to thrust?

I did a search for 'zipline drone propellers' after watching Rober. And ended up here. 🤗
Rwanda Zipline impressed me long ago.

a problem not covered about those propellers is the asymmetrical thrust on the prop shaft

Please do toroidal propellers next!

I’d love to put the zip line props on my drones. I love that sound

WOW I learned RPM means Revolutions Per Second... thats cool..

Grate video!

Owl Wings have amazing structures for reducing/countering sound & these are being researched in order to build biomimicry technology - designed by nature, synthesized by us.

There are several companies trying to recreate the Stiff Comb Structures along the leading edges of Owl Wings. These structures generate counter-vortices over the top of the wings, which act as inverted/offset soundwaves to significantly nullify the sounds that the wings generate as they fly. (There are many factors why this is as yet in production, with lifespan being at the top. Then the comb's overall structure, tine length, tines/cm, gap size/shape, etc. - all which changes with blade use & rotational frequency)

Owl Wings also have highly fractal / fluffy shaped edges along the trailing edge feathers, (along with most body feathers). These act much like the acoustic foam in studio sound booths, trapping several sound frequencies within their structures - making everything much quieter. (Unfortunately, these kinds of structures tend to only work at low frequencies, hence the Owls slow, low flying hunting technique.)

These evolutionary adaptations make Owls the quietest flyers in existence, capable of producing less than 15dBa in noise as they fly through testing facilities. This is far less than human ears are capable of hearing (with perhaps some pressure waves on your skin being the only sign an Owl is about to fly past you). 

[ I can actually attest to this myself as one chased a bat past my where I was sitting one very quiet evening (bush property). I heard the frantic fluttering of the tiny bat as it flew past, then nearly jumped out of my skin as an Owl with a pure white underside & huge 80cm wingspan, silently ghosted out of the night past my face... ]

zipline drones: no
cargo trains: yes

Now that’s a sponsor. I wanna check that out

Scimitar-shaped propellers are a widely-used intermediate solution between conventional straight props and the toroidal designs that you showed. As with winglets and wing extensions on airliner wings, they work by reducing the energy of the tip vortex.

Is it the best quality we can expect from 3D prints? Looks pretty rough. :(

Looks as though clearance between the propeller and the drone arm is important too.

I wonder what would happen in overall performance if they added the little turbulance breaking wing tips that some aircraft have?

Nice job

I would have liked to see the speed of the wind for the zipline blade

6:19 POV: a R44 or B212 in the distance approaching

5:00 the mosquito in my room which is already high on my blood, but wants more.

Thanks for your take on this! I was waiting for someone to give it a deeper look like it was done with the recent toroidal fans.

The real question everything's been asking themselves since seeing that Mark Rober video

BPF is why primes are often used for blade numbers,  fewer harmonic oscillator points, abound.

Fan blades (12 blades) that I sometimes use on my toothpick quadcopter, are way quieter than the standard tri-blades.

This is awesome!

I think these Zipline propellers are awesome.  So is their idea of lowering their payloads with a retractable line!  The brilliant video about these new propellers is much appreciated.
I wanted to mention that toroidal propellors have been patented and used to propel commercial boats for many years, so despite their statements, the MIT students didn't invent the idea.
On my channel there are a series of ion propelled aircrafts with onboard power that fly almost silently.  They are patented for lifting their power supplies against Earth's gravity and for the required efficiency improvements. Please take a look.
Thanks for the info!

wow very interesting! love it

5:20 that’s basically a full octave difference right there 😮

Great video. I hope you can do a follow up video. My question; how does the different propellers effect lift? You spoke briefly about wind speed but I am curious specifically about lift?

What about toroidal propeller

Such an interesting technique and Marc Rober missed the chance to make a video about it.

Excellent demo. Some food for thought: I know normalizing by rpm is more practical, but I am inclined to believe it should be normalized by airflow or lift/thrust.

I was waiting for this. Lol

This is going to annoy the elephants and whales

Glad to know dragonfly props have become more widespread now
remember hqprop?

You know
The zip line props look a lot like how props bend with camera shutter

Test for drone... flip the prop around to measure directly below the prop. Try torroidal with offset blades to see if there is an additive effect.

The thrust of different propellers can be different, as can the sweet point of rpm of each one.

Great video, also applicable in windturbine technology. Thank you!

Nice video, very informative. Following this same theme, will you make a video explaining the reazon for using a double propelers one turning clockwise and the other counter clockwise?

I'd love to print stuff for you if you need. I've been tinkering and tuning 3d printers to where I can get stuff off the bed that doesn't even look printed. I'm not talking down on your print or anything but it looked like a first timer.
EDIT
Oh and I'm not talking about for money, you've paid me enough with all of the knowledge and entertainment you've given me.

Have you concidered uploading this to Onlyfans?

I think this thing is not well researched. Snake oil it is.

This comment is tragically underrated

hey can you share the 3d print file for the uneven blade spacing props? thanks

0:21 "buzzing" lol

Super interested if the wishbone looking prop could be used on a full sized plane or helicopter.

this seems to implement the shape of the Sharrow prop, just without the connected tips. it also seems to be part of the MIT design, but people forget it completely

I would love to see a propeller with a single toroidal "blade loop" and a streamlined counterweight.

Obrigado 😁😁😁😁😁😁😁

cool stuff 👍

6:18  wow, that's a great result

We need to get @MajorHardware in here to do the heavy lifting

I love that you watched the same video I did and thought the same thing I did and I'm really glad you decided to do a video on it; thank you!

Do the toroid propeller next

These uneven ones... Fascinating. I'd like to see a helicopter with those.

ive said it before and ill say it again. channels like action lab are the only reason i still use youtube. the only social media that i use

Lower pitched propeller noise is perceived as quieter.
UH-1 has entered the chat.

Very much reminds me of the difference between a parallel / V twin motor vs an inline 4.

What about combining the two concepts—toroidal prop with uneven blade spacing ?

what app are you using on that phone to measure the frequency? I really would like to know.

What is the app he is using to measure the audio?

My question about the design, comes down to the counter weight.   Because you're using a counter weight, would it make a difference for the RPM vs. the weight?  Or is the counter weight and RPM independent of each other?

Be interesting to see the Thrust. would be lower due to cavitation from the blade in front.

I was SO wondering the same thing after Mark’s vid
Thanks for making this!! 👏👏🫶

Awesome, you had my doggie peering everywhere with those fan blade sounds playing through the mic.😮

I did my Ph.D. at UC Irvine in the same lab as the thesis you showed, with Dimitri Papamoschou. Thanks for citing! Those were great explanations.

lol yeah ive been thinking about those propellers every day since that video

Very Interesting

I want some for my mavic

I should send this to my neighbor across the street who is running a leaf blower at this very moment...

efficiency isn't about thrust per rpm but energy used.

I like the idea of them changing the blades or propeller because could it slow down the encounter's with birds while in the air?

Often wondered if someone looked at Owl wings, which are silent, for propeller designs.

Wow you've made an Atlas Shrugged game

Look at the ah64 Apache tail rotor. It is both unevenly spaced and on different planes for noise reduction.

And this is why example Mi-24, Mi-28 and AH-64 has the X-anti-torque rotors design.

Great video learnt a lot. Just wondering if frequency is the same as or equates to, actual volume at a distance?

I can see that there needs to be a lot more research done into blade spacing and design.
Such as MIT's design. Would more blades like five work better?
Or the two blade design stacked on top of each other spaced further apart work better?
A researcher could and should go crazy with this!

The Apache helicopter has its tail rotor's blades spaced like this for sound suppression, too.

What is the power and thrust utilisation curves with the new propeller

8:10 is when sponsor ad ends

Sounds like the beat of a dragonfly's wing

How about testing of original three-blade prop?

i suppose your phd revolved around sounds? why are we not yet able to have sound cancelling guns? need this to shup up  the club playing loud music in my estate at night.

@peterkamakia7284  Noise canceling is a complex problem, but it is possible to have a speaker that tries to cancel the noise it receives from behind. It won't work in all directions, and unfortunately, the current approach to noise cancellation does not work too well with music and low frequencies. It's a consequence of physics + signal processing (adaptive filtering).
Passive sound suppression (better insulation) and them to be quieter may be the best current option.

he needs to collab with ElectroBoom, it would be a blast

nice video

You might honestly have the weirdest but coolest collection of measuring devices for the most random things that things can output outside of any actual official laboratory for whatever that thing may be lol 😄

Very interesting. But you didn't make a comparison with 3, or 5 bladed propellers.

Could you combine the two? Have the round MIT blades with two of them at one side and a counter-balanance? 
I'm guessing that would probably interfere with the consistent flow or something, but IDK

3:37 reminds me of infrasound

Props and rockets.

This has been wrecking my head ever since I seen that zipline video. Thanks

Testing toroidal props would be very interesting.

They should combine a toroidal blade with a counterbalance

I had done overlapping 2 propellars long back not because of frequency or noise reduction but to increase thrust 😅

speaking of uneven spacing, look at this dude's beard

Can you do a video explaining the thing with the mirror knowing what's on the other side of it with a paper covering it? Pleaseeeeee

0:46 one other contributor to noise is the accuracy and texture of the airfoil of the propeller.

Ive seen that propeller design on helicopter tail rotors like the apache.

Apple’s computer fans are also spaced out differently and that also makes them more quiet than PCs.

How close the propeller is to the motor/mount has a large effect on noise aswell

Nice.  It would have been interesting to see thrust (reactive force at the motor mount) vs power (watts, electrical) vs RPM as well.

It appears that you could make 2  propellers that produce pressure waves each at a different frequency and such that the waves interfered thus providing a very quiet sound. It might be necessary to have the blades rotating co-axially.

This guys voice is so similar to The Cowboy in Mulholland Drive

That patent was 2017 I think and no results has been presented that indicates any of the properties that they are buzzing about... So just forget it... I also saw some 200% better efficiency on torodial boat propellers 😆 It's just a scam and it's a shame that MIT doesn't go out with a correction.

Nice video ya my drone can be very unpleasant with the sound of the blade and i like to be discret when i fly to beautiful location for me and people around.

Law of equivalent exchange... the less noice the more energy is required.... never fails

6:31 thats the same I think after i search for any available options...

What I wonder is how much uplift force is generated with the design? Compared with traditional same number of blades

Could you please find and test a Prandtl propeller?

What about efficiency for these different blade configurations, how do they compare?

Excellent and direct explanation of the sound suppression in just 3 minutes! Keep up the good work!

6:57
you can tell that the high pressure points on the right model come when blades face one another straight.
that's because the air density in between them is less than everywhere else, because they're both sweeping the same area.
turn the props 90º to each other so they never face the same line, and that should cut the buzzing even more.
MORE to it, put a funnel around them so the air is contained and bounced around, it'll help dissipate shockwaves.
your sound would go up and down instead of sideways.
bend the blades like in high performance propellers, from AC fans or turbines, and that would smooth the transition from high to low pressure.
basically... you're using a piston engine propeller... use a submarine propeller instead.

Waiting for Tom Stanton to test this out

Is this basically the same thing we do with the profile blocks of car tires?

10:04 If you like this video, remember to like this video 😂

does it require more energy to spin the uneven blade faster, even if producing the same thrust?

I'd like to hear about thrust.
Also, what about the pressure collapse out at the tips of heli blades? I've never seen staggered blades on a heli like you describe.

Do a toroidal propeller next.

So like what would happen if there is a small single blade moving opposite direction exactly below the main blades ?

hmm....don´t forget the impact of the tip(-shape) of the blade in noise production!

Makes me think about bug wings

Please explain Bulb tungsten filament failure with chemical reaction

I can't help but shiver at the quality of those prints. I know they don't have to look pretty, but i'm 99% sure the bad surfaces mess up the test data significantly.

An interesting question is also how this affects efficiency. Will this design be as efficient as the traditional?

I liked the video.  I'll try to remember to like it 🙂

Do you remember news about Black Hawk helicopters that people told seemed nearly silent when flying

Silent drone with weaponry is basically a silent attack drone

Nice. But do the evenly and unevenly spaced propellers have the same thrust?

Hi, interesting video, 
Just a note, in your test (min. 4:00), you raised the blades and overlapped them, so you basically changed 2 variables at the same time, so we don't know how much the overlapping or raising of the blades could have affected the overall change in noise.

Go look at the cooling fans on most vehicles, the fan blades are not symmetrically spaced, as to help prevent excessive fan noise

do you have the stl files for the zipline propeller?
I love your videos. keep up the good work.

I would like to see what the effect is on thrust though. Does the efficiency of the lift force decrease?

At 9:12 you had the prop installed with the leading edges in the trailing position

Apple Macs' cooling fans have uneven blade spacing to reduce fan noise too 👍

Problem with single or double blades with a counter weight is that the dynamic pressure pont is not inline with the rotational axis. An ordinary prop on a two (three or four) bladed prop have the dynamic pressure centered on the rotting axis centerline.

Is it a coincidence that in your stacked blade experiment, side by side, that there is a whole octave difference in the note produced??

it might be interesting to do a counterbalanced single toroid prop, with low frequency and less tip vortices it might be even better.

Did I miss you testing the wacky looking zipline blades?

Is there a corealation on marching on a bridge, creating a multiplier force that can destroy the bridge, and the multiplier noise?

interesting i was wondering about those props asince is aw Marks Robers video

Try to coat the propheler with teflon to reducing the noise

Hi, Thanks for the video !
 I happen to work on propeller design, we can provide you with some propellers for tests if you like ! Thanks again

Try designing a torodial propeller but with spacing 30 degree and vertical spacing between the propellers kinda combining the best of both propellers. 😊

I am going to theorize that the third shortened blade is to create an anti harmonic mode, (Or optionally to help with the turbulence caused in the air by the blade passing through)

Would the toroidal propellers be combinable with the other designs for minimum sounds?

Did someone say non-orthogonal? Hughes Helicopter essentially placed one tail rotor on top of another in the "scissor" configuration on their OH-6 allowing the tail rotor to be effective at slower rotational speed reducing the noise level. The AH-64 has a similar design.

8:19 isn’t the exhaust side of the fan on the backside of the propellers?

What about different length blades in pairs?

Anyone else feel that the spacing looks like dragonfly wings? I doubt if that's a coincidence.

Both my idols

Look up "magic sinewaves".  It's a special PWM wave form for DC to AC inverters that lets you switch at low frequency without having to filter out low frequency harmonics.  Basically careful jitter in the timing of all the transitions in the PWM let you null out harmonics of your choice.

I’d love to know what the impact on fly time is with the zipline prop.

What about adding those upswing tips, like they have on airplane wings now?

I actually preferred the higher pitch propellers

Was hoping that the toroidal propeller would be shown on the same bench having comparative tests. 🤷‍♂

should of put another tach pad on the back of the blade across from the one that is being used for rpm readings to rebalance the prop

The idea of the single blade is to avoid the blade operating in the wake of the opposite blade (further reducing noise). I tried a single blade rubber band plane and it was more efficient with only one blade. One blade broke off the two blade prop and I tried it with only one blade and it outperformed itself (to my surprise).

need to also measure thrust produced and electrical power consumed.

Very good. 
An audio spectrum analyser would have helped though, as it is hard to discriminate sounds by ear thru the phone's speaker.
Regards,

You should measure the electric power input of the motor (instead of rpm) against windpower. Blade-interaction might lead to lower wind speed but also decrease torque.

Curious to know how adding winglets at end of propeller blades will affect the noise and performance

curious if a resonant frequency could be implied to eliminate noise completely. a white noise generator ?

A single piece of propeller blade on one side suppresses the airflow made by the other two and provides stability to the flying wing. The reason for the excitement and shaking may be due to the weight of the material and it is not smooth! it needs to be polished, there should be laminar flow on the propeller blades

Issue I can see with these as props is uneven lifting on the motor axis. This will cause early failure of bearing and motors.

Sounds like a Vtwin version of propellers

What if you use three or four blades that are at different heights and different surface areas?

I will do it sir 
I am on it already

How does efficiency compare between the modified (low freq noise) fan and control fan

For value it would be adjusting blade pitch and amps burn of evaluated props instead of staying with off the shelf standard configurations.

Could you show experiment on how a spherical magnet behaves and show magnetic field lines when that sphere is suspended in a box of jelly substance mixed with iron particles and also what happens to field lines when you rotate the sphere about its own axis ?!

The tail rotor of the AH64 Apache has displaced blades. I assume this is to reduce noise

Thanks!

Thanks!

Its this difference in perception that has led to birds like geese being used in sentry animal roles as they clearly hear things we completely miss.

Torodial "blades" in a ducted config.
or in a duel contra-rotating rotating config. 
     Better than that, an impeller with offset counter 
balanced "blades". Like a vacuum cleaner or a turbo charger, both 
are higher pitch sounds, lowering that frequency would be nice.
          Just a thought.

Fascinating. beyond the psychoacoustic effect of spreading the frequencies out, By moving energy to the lower octave, it would also make the overall sound less directional. That bass energy should diffuse out to the point of inaudibility (43 Hz is already near limit of the human ability to hear, unless you have a subwoofer on your speakers you're not hearing it anyway, I do have a sub and the 2 bladed props were fun lol) sooner than the higher frequencies in open air, so from a distance, not only does it seem quieter, it actually is quieter. While it may seem counterintuitive (since you hear bass booming from cars more than treble, it might seem like bass travels further), bass has to be amplified much more to achieve a distance advantage over high frequencies, and there's not much bass energy to begin with in the case of these propellers.

Great video, you may want to work on\optimize your 3d printer's settings.

BUT, how does the closer spacing affect lift?

Do the different angled propellers create equal thrust as compared to the equally spaced propellers at the same RPM?

You may be unaware that british military rotor craft use (BERPS) a system to reduce the noise at the rotor tips.

Decades ago Dan Diehl also used a smaller angle on his two 2-bladed propellers on a single-engine amphibian. I was curious as to why he arranged the props that way. Perhaps sound reduction was one reason.

What I'm missing is the comparison to the 2-bladed propeller. Also I don't care for propeller speed, but rather input power vs. pull.

it's like an owl feather

We need science to reduce blender noise too.

I was thinking literally any amount of buffing/sanding them before putting them on camera would work too

What about the effect of operational lift?

is the pitch of the blade the same though? that can make a big difference in thrust

I remember reading how ducted props could increase preformance and the toroidal prop seems almost a hybred between open prop and ducted. Makes me wonder about a ducted toroidal.

Need a 3d model that combines the two together (toroidal and sipline)

He basically just created a recon drone from Warzone😂 @7:00

Cool, aero stuff. And I'll check your link out, interested to see if I can use 3d modelling or even CFD with the community account 😊

As a Submarine SONAR Tech we called that "Blade Rate"

What i have found is when you reduce noise, you also reduce thrust and endurance. They are all related. The trick is finding the right balance.

Blade profile is the first place to start in regaining efficiency. The trailing blade is getting dead air from the leading blade in this concept model.

What about the toroidal prop. Can u do a video on these or make ur own.

So why, with identical blade design would there be less thrust on the uneven blade configuration?

I have experience with metal casting but not 3d printing.  In casting we had cores, (voids in the casted metal)..   are there any 3d printing formats/approaches that can incorporate cores/voids?  I know infill is a thing but infill is only applicable to printing fill, not empty space.  I feel like SLA and metal powder printing shine here and others lack.

Make an one bladed toroidal propeller based on zipline design

Wondering if you could cancel out the noise by somehow tuning 2 of the propellers to generate their sound 180 degrees out of phase with the other two?

I’ve seen the staggered fan blades on automotive radiator cooling fans. I suspect it’s for the same reason

Noise, thrust, efficiency: pick two.

you have an interesting isight with two baldes prop at 30 degress from eachother and offset on the same axis by (my guess) one blade chord, all counterballanced on the other side on a short arm with a weigth, and that makes it even more quiet plus mantains the airpush of a two blades, highly effcient.
What if you take the two (double) baldes thoroidal system, eliminate one blade (pair) and replace it with a weight, ballance it with some metal inserts and eventuall screws and measure it against the others?

Also put all propellers one by one in a PVC tube and measure the air intake for each both by speed and by volume.

maybe we can mix the toroid propeller with the zipline's style of position.

doesnt cars have that with the radiator aswell they always have uneven blades and i never understood why :P

What is the impact of having unequal angles on things like lift and drag? Is there no impact?

That's because toroidal props are an evolution of ducts.  There were stationary ducts that props would spin inside of, with tight tolerances between blade tip and duct to reduce vortices.  Then there were some designs that integrated the circular duct onto the prop, though I'm not sure how far outside of experiments these went, due to additional weight to further reduce tip vortices as there were no actual tips; annular wing planes are a similar concept.  Toroidal props are just an evolution of this, further refining the integrated duct prop for efficiency reasons, as you now have an integrated duct that's also fairly shallow compared to a full circular duct being relatively long which would be weight savings at scale; these also have the benefit of being able to take on different shapes, more design variety to better optimize blades for varying craft specifications, and for various applications as this also translates to submersible props where they more than likely see larger benefits of the design.  Not really a hybrid, though.

 @xaytana  Yep. I was saying hybreb because they seem to share some the same properties.

Btw if they need to spin faster that will add stress to the design so in many cases it's probably pointless. But thanks for explaining spy tech for us Q! Expecting to see this in the next Bond film 😂

5:25 what if you just print the shroud onto them

I'm curious if there is a power loss (lift loss) moving from conventional blade config to the zip line config.
Less noise should also mean less power.

What combined effects would unevenly angled/spaced blades somehow being clocked to one another have on noise as a whole "noise package"?

@TheActionLab can you put an empty pill capsule in a vacuum chamber? I know it will probably just pop open (or nothing at all) but I still want to see it.

I wonder if you can get even better noise reduction by combining the toroidal propeller with irregular blade spacing.

silent skies hopefully in the future. Especially now that DJI just released Inspire 3

To get the same wind speed, you had to increase rpm for uneven blade. It means more energy consumption for the same thrust.

What if you combine both techniques? uneven blade spaced toroidal propellers?

Does anyone know where to download a 3D model for printing such a propeller?

I don't remember which car it was. The radiator fan had uneven spacing. I also heard it is same as the tires.

Is the lift produced at any given rpm different between different blade types?

The Apache does this with its rear prop.

OK, but how is the lift affected? Could you get the same effect by just using a larger slower prop?

Looks like stealth operations got a little bit more stealthy 🥷

And adding a 2 toroidal of 2propeler to stack each other 30°?

You could have put the microphone on a mount and measure the distance to the blade and repeat it every time, record the sound with a good quality audio card and then run an FFT on the recorded signal to see which frequencies and their harmonics appear and at what levels in different blade configurations.

Could you add wingless to a rotor like they do on airplane?

Gemfan or HQProp, get on this!

How does blade position affect lift?

1:23  That's not an audio recording.  It's a spectrum analysis.

vacation on the beach is usually annoyed when someone just flies a drone overhead.

can we just combine the toroidal blades with the zipline design, particularly the step up and single side, lower frequency + less air disturbance

that is nice

Silent drones can bombarde effectively.

could you make a toroidal propellor that is unevenly spaced too, would it be even quieter?

im more on impulse, thrust vs wats than noise which is second, i love the flapping noise of the blades
😉

Iwr seen this on car engine radiator fans since forever. The fan blades sre unevely spaced to avoid creating resonance.

The two profiles should be used together: one Mobius ring and one counterweight

Now it would be really neat to create a sub diameter blade set to create an anti pressure wave pulse to attenuate....... Active noise canceling possible?

Let's get this into computer case fans.

So this maybe obvious but what about trying two toroid propellers with the offset spacing between them? less noise and more efficiency?

You reaaaaaaaaly need a resin printer to do this justice.  Those layer lines really affect the performance

Mi-28 has had this type of rotor for exactly 40 years.

How about rim driven hubless propellers? They have nothing under the blades for the air to hit

But do the narrow spaced blades move as much air?

Consider the trailing edge of an owls wings. They are serrated, as are some a/c blades, for the same reason - much quieter.

The unevenly spaced one just seemed to have more of a hum to it in that side by side comparison.
My headset is freakishly loud with low frequencies, or maybe that's just my perception but I feel my ears vibrate more (aka louder).

might have been nice to convert rpm to Hz as that confused me for a second there expecting 5 and 10KHz for the two props

Is there an offset space and angle mixed with set rotational speed frequencies when the sound waveform from one blade would cancel out the waveform from the other blade? This would be similar to how noise canceling headphones work. We could start with optimal cruising speed rpms for a particular motor, then design a propeller (toroidal or otherwise) to take advantage of the noise canceling effect.

Where do I get toroidal propellers if I don’t have a 3D printer tho??

I wonder about making a propeller of this type with 4 blades on one side.

If you really want to even out the spectrum frequency, you may try undulating RPM. The disadvantage in thrust shall be akin to uneven spaced blades.

need a little practice using that 3D printer 😂 those prints are looking a bit dusty 😅

Automotive manufacturers has been doing this for years on cooling fan and cooling fan assemblies to reduce noise.

It looks like the tradeoff is acoustic noise vs energy efficiency (flight time).

About an octave difference between the two rc propellers

cfd makes some pretty pictures. That's about it.

What about toroidal mixed with zip line design? And let's kick it up a notch and make a coaxel type of blade system like the ka-52 helicopter

How about a regular blade with a winglet like commercial airplanes?

Holly shit the one on the left with lower frequency is twice as loud as the normal blade.

apache rear props !!

you should have miced the propellors to make it more interesting

Question? harmonics with a 5-blade propellor vs a 4-blade one?

Even for a Zipline balanced prop, it seems like there would a large aerodynamic excitation from the one sided thrust force. It could cause a large torque on the drone arm and potential for fatigue and large vibrations. I would like to know why they made the propeller "one-sided" (for lack of a better word). You could have a three bladed prop at 3, 5, 7 spacing (ie prime numbers, 20 degrees, 72 degrees, and 168 degrees) and proportion the propeller size to align the aerodynamic force with the centre line of the motor. You use prime numbers to avoid matching multiples of excitation frequencies.

6:19 It was like a Car piston

How are the tones with contra-rotating regular blades? Contra-rotating zip-line blades (I assume even worse efficient due to blocked airflow)? Contra-rotating blades with one longer than the other (weigh/balance the same but one shorter and thicker)?  Zipline blades with curved/bent 90 degrees (or Tee-ed end) blade tips (like the tips of modern airplane wings) with the distance between the blades accommodating the blade type length?
-Keith Hall

OMFG I have been googling wishbone propellers since the Mark Rober's video came out lol

The Perceived Loudness curve makes more sense when you flip it. The usual way we see it is important for understanding the energy level needed but for actual perception... it is reversed: that if we use the SAME amount of energy at each frequency how loud it would feel. For a layman it is much, much more intuitive to actually show the perceived loudness than "how much energy should we use to hear this thing at same level".. 

One of the most common mistakes made when we try to explain our craft to people who don't understand really anything about sound.... because we have learned it this way and had to twist that concept upside down already once. I still think that for professional settings it is much better the way it is, that it just practical for most application to think about it this way, but for someone just trying to understand the concept: FLIP IT UPSIDE DOWN.

One thing not discussed here are the surface areas exposed to air as it rotates, plus the pitch of each blade. Think of surface area as the size of a bird's wing. It takes an equal amount of energy for more surface area to create the same amount of lift. Think of it as the difference between a hawk's wing versus a hummingbirds. That is what makes the "hum" from a hummingbird. But all we hear from a hawk is a whoosh. In fact, the most silent bird is an owl because of the owl's wing design. 
So, using the same analogy for propellers, a prop with a large surface area can rotate slower than one with less surface area rotating faster. The faster blade will create a buzz or a hum whereas the slower one will create a "whooshing" noise.
On a helicopter, the amount of lift generated isn't created by the speed of the blades as it is by the pitch of each blade. The surface area doesn't change nor does the rotational speed. The speed stays constant but the blade pitch changes. This is why we hear a doppler sound as the helicopter approaches and recedes and also depends on where we are in relation to the blades.

What about a combined zipline-toroidal propeller?

Has anyone tried the shape of Sade,  it will operate smoothly

Was the first thing I did after watch the Mark Rober video. Look for information on the propellers. This video is great for digging into this.

I stopped watching when I saw the shirt. dude believes in aliens, lul.

How does lift factor in? Better or worse?

So what if we did half a Toroidal and then have a counter weight on the side with no blades, how quiet can we make a fan?

I wonder if it would be possible to build a propeller that would create its own noise cancellation by having some tones out of phase?

would it be possible to make a hybrid zipline toroidal prop?

What about the toroidal shap combined with this concept by the zip line company, is that possible?

I wonder if there’s a way to shape the blades so that you get in a range out of human hearing?

Would this work on something like a submarine? Maybe help to prevent cavitation? Or would the loss of power be something too substantial for that kind of application?

What about unevenly spaced toroidal propellers?

Since the noise is predictable in certain hz cant it be counteracted by Active Noise cancellation just like Apple Ear buds instead to reshaping the blades itself which are inefficients.

Is the thust afected by change position of blades?

from where did you buy that "welcome to Area 51" t shirt ?
I like it.

And how dose this affect thrust

How much trust each type of propeller can create?

Is the thrust equal in each propeller?

what if you made a contra-rotating propeller with it?

Make video on toroidal propeller

Perhaps a dumb question, but do the lower noise props have the same lift as a "counterpart"?  And, there are "pusher" blades that might have a different noise profile.

I love your channel, thanks for the really well explained and varied content. I suggest you invest in an SLA printer though. All in with a cleaning station it's going to run you like $500 or less. The prints generally aren't as strong and definitely don't last as long as FDM printers but they're much much smoother and generally work better for prototyping flow related components.

When the heights of the blades are offset does it make much difference between if the higher blades are leading or trailing the lower blades? If the higher blades are leading I think the lower blades are pushing air that the higher ones have already pushed effectively making one large blade. Whereas if the higher blades are trailing the air being pushed would be separate. If so would it then also make a difference in noise?

hi lephtovermeet have you become a flat earther yet?

It was weird that you measured noise vs RPM instead of noise vs thrust.

Nice

I heard Torroidal fans does the same thing too, I wonder if its possible to merge both Zipline and Torroidal, would it make it the most quietest thing or would it conflict each other?

Please try the mit version

What if you took two toroidal propellers and stacked them, one flipped, like in the first demonstration you did? And made to spin like one fan?

Is it possible that if the blades are vibrating so that the spacing between them I never the same we would have zero peaks in the noise frequency distribution ?

Can you please make your propeller into a toroidal propeller to have the best of both designs. You already have half a toroidal propeller, you just need to connect the two to make a loop. I would love to see how quiet it is now and the efficiencies you could get

wait, but you didn't cover the 2-blade design with counterweight

to me the 2 propellers he made the same volume just a different pitch, might be just me though

Is there a trade-off in lift or other performance?

does anyone have the 3d design file of this type of propeller??

It would be interesting to see what kind of harmonics the asymmetrical thrust from this prop sets up in whatever crankshaft is turning it.

Does the sponsor's system allow you to sample airpressure at a given position over time, to obtain the simulated sound?

Is the thrust performance of each design the same or similar, after all thrust is our main goal is it not?

Would it be possible to make it more efficient butstill quiet by adding more blades with different spacing after each? Acting as primes do in math?

I would have liked to know if the toroidal blades are quieter or noisier than the 30° blades, but you did not compare them.

The propellers look like the tail rotor of the Apache.

How about unevenly space toroïdal blades? Perhaps ducted also..?

I suppose one other source of noise is cause by flow turbulence. I suppose if you design the propeller to induce the highest air speed in the center and taper down as you approach the edge you can make the flow more laminar and reduce the windy white noise associated with turbulent flow.

Automotive radiator fans are offset as well. If they were all equal distance the would be more noisy.

hi delta, have you become a flat earther yet?

How about the toroidal propeller?

Or non smooth blades. Or holes in them?

i wonder how much quieter it would be if you actually made the blades smooth instead of those really rough prints.

Nice.

So if you make a fan that generate a G-note, you can make a chord! (ish :p)

You can't tell efficiency unless you test overall power, different blades may have different resistance

Reynolds number is a measure of stickiness of the fluid I guess!

What happens to thrust with uneven spacing?

This is the reasoning for car tire patterns being asymmetric so frequencies of tire passing over the road dont overlap

Master Airscrew is watching  and testing... they like this low frequency props, but Mini 3 Pro was so quiet and low they ended up selling a prop that was louder and higher pitched.

Very cool topic, but… what's with the super low-res print? If you've just bought a 3D printer and your prints look like this: 0:28, then your need to adjust your print settings, fix the printer itself or maybe even return it. Just how thick are these layers, 0.4mm? It feels like there's so much about this print that could affect the result, between the thing glued on at the end of the short blade, the hard stepping on the underside, and even all the bits sticking out into the air flow. This model might work to measure noise, but it would need to printed correctly first :-/

How do they compare in power of "LIFT"

The normal prop sounds like a group of people singing. What happens if you change the length on one pair?

Can compare power efficienct volt times current vs same wind speed

2 toroidal blades with counterwieght?

i wonder if you could have 1x toroidal propeller with a counterweight, then take the same stacked blades idea to remove broadband noise, so you end up with a stack of single torodial blades and counterweights. If that was then mouted inside a tube a bit like an EDF, would it be like a silent leaf blower?

I'm waiting for someone to release a good 3d printable version.

One issue with those zipline blades is center of thrust, the counter weight arm produces little to no thrust and so the center of thrust is rotating around the center axis causing more strain on the motor bearings and introducing vibrations into the drone arms equal in frequency to the rounds per second of the propeller. They tried it long long ago with single bladed props and decided the drawbacks far outweighed the benefits.

I am sure there is more to the Zipline props and their shapes than is covered here.  For then to work everything is critical.  The angle of the blades from each other. the distance of one above the other too.  I am guessing that some of their noise reduction is that the placement and shapes of the blades reduces the vortex's that they produce and that can quiet them too.

What if the a blade was placed beneath another blade with a different pitch at a distance designed to intercept the sound waves (aka air movement in a wave) and reflect it in a different direction while further leveraging the speed of the air coming down from the top blade?

Does that description convey what I mean? Taking advantage of both the sound waves and the displaced air - if that's possible. Maybe having the top blade at a rightward movement and the bottom blade at a leftward movement? 

Food for thought, simulation, and experimentation.

The same propellers like tail rotor in Apache AH-64 :)

Was quite annoyed about Mark not diving into the subject of those whacky propellers, thank you!

Interesting.

The AH-64 Apache helicopter did this with it tail rotor 50 years ago!   lol

Is there a question of thrust, or efficiency to measure too?

Wait, could it be bad for sound being louder than we perceive and have potential to cause hearing damage at some point of loudness?

Suggestion for a video, would be cool to do an experiment with De-ionized water I use a 70 percent isopropyl 30 percent de ionized water mixture to clean hospital medical equipment on this disaster recovery job at a hospital fire in Brockton Mass but the de ionized water does not conduct electricity or cause corrosion would be cool to see you come up with a de ionized water experiment

what about the thrust

Tldr; it still creates noise but lower frequency that we can't hear

@KYLEENGINEERS I'd love to see your take on these designs

I hate the attention that flying a drone brings you... I could use these props

But what does it do for lift

Cool video, but I must argue that "and that is exactly what I have here." Just the exactly though, we just need to fix that print lol.

So, what about an unevenly spaced toroidal propeller?

I'd love to see quiet laptop fan....

I'm sure it's vibration because of eccentric made of uneven mass making low freq noise

I wonder if propellers with feathers-like texture can be quieter, as nocturnal birds are often very fluffy

As you point out toward the end, efficiency is a factor so you have to increase the speed which also increases the fundamental frequency.   Claiming that lower frequencies aren't as annoying may not be accurate.  Since high frequency hearing suffers with age, the four prop version may actually be less annoying to older people.  🤔

"Hexagons are the Bestagons!"

At 4" : The 30° propeller spins 300 rpm faster than the 90° . On the 30° the second set of blade is somewhat shadowed by the first so you reduce the overall drag, at the expense of lower traction and efficiency. Thes blades needs to be spaced even more.

Should have used Zipline propeller designs because I think it would be a lot quieter

I have a question,  dimples, golf ball dimples, on A plane, wings and possibly propellers and even for high speed cars ?

Toroidal uneven spaced stacked propellers, when?

Okay, if the sound is attenuated then the thrust must also be low for the non- traditional props, Comparison between rpm and thrust for a power consumption factor is worthwhile to explore as compared between the variants

Gamma waves could be compared to ultra violets waves???

What happens if you combine toroidal and unevenly spaced props?🤔

The real issue with the uneven blade spacing is the thrust efficiency. Props are measured in thrust (YOUR Windspeed measurement except in pounds of thrust) compared to Pounds-Feet of torque applied to rotate the prop (or newton meters)...  On model quad-copters this isn't that much of an issue except with battery life between flights. With full scale equipment you desire the most thrust per unit of fuel. (MPG in cars)  What you need to design is quiet, highest thrust, with best fuel efficiency.  

Something needing watched for is when using uneven props with full scale working units, the air is not smooth in flight.  You can visually see changes in constant speed props' blade angle of attack during turbulence. I flew some very large turboprops with nearly 12' diameter four bladed props that spun constantly at 1500 RPM. The system varied blade pitch as engine torque changed, and speed through the air increased.  Like a CVT transmission in a modern car.
Eventually uneven thrust distribution on a full-scale application might tear a prop apart.  For small flying models this sort of thing might not be an issue, but what is the purpose of advanced engineering of models than translation into full-scale heavy lifting products? For a more quiet application a ducted fan might be more in the order of business.  Interesting video.  It got the aviation side of my brain working this morning, and with only one cup of coffee. Thank You.

So that means it doesn't matter as its louder underneath?

I have a practical problem with the theoretical mathematic harmonic series. I'm never going to do a video on this so, have at it. When I was learning electronics, specifically antenna design and operation, the literature and course work stated infinite harmonic frequencies are produced at multiples by the initial frequency. I pointed out this was impossible because it would require an infinite amount of power to produce any given frequency. I was told to just go along with the course material if I wanted to pass. This problem seems similar in nature to Zeno's Paradox of Dichotomy,  the "half the distance" problem. Divide the remaining distance by half and you will never reach the end. I am fairly certain there are not infinite harmonics produced or an infinite distance between points that can be observed. Quantum collapse of duality seems of interest here. Cheers,  Tom

Apple created cooling fans with balanced but staggered blade spacing to make them seem less noisy.

Is there a reason why 3D printed blades are not smoothed with sandpaper etc. The surface seems to be really rough.

Would be interesting if you gave performance per watt of power going to the motor.  Within limits I don't really care how fast it spins.

I always wondered if propellers had tiny plastic hooks along the leading, & possibly trailing edges of the blades,(similar to the quiet wings of owls), would they be quieter....? 🤔

not sure if wind speed is the best way to measure propeller efficency. Maybe you should measure the power input and put a scale under it to measure the trust?

two propellers turning at the same frequency could have different pitch or diameter and produce very different output but drawing very differen amount of power

And vibration? Does the design create a considerable quiver?

This is very interesting, I'm not too technical or scientific but I have a friend who spent a couple grand on HID headlights/fog lights, but he was complaining it was still too dim. They were noticeably dim, so he wasn't looking to blind anyone. Well it turns out the colour temperature of the bulbs were different, such that the more yellow fogs were cancelling part of the blue-ish light coming from the headlights. I know there's a term for this...

Combine toroidal with zipline props to make the ultimate prop.

does this effect thrust?

Seems to me that the uneven thrust would produce side loading on the shaft that is not accounted for in the design of a standard  drone motor. The bearings should be beefed up and the shaft should be stiffened by making it heavier, or by making it a hollow shaft with a larger diameter.

I prefer efficiency over noise

Electrical Engineer here. There is no mathematical void waiting in the infinite harmonics produced, such as by a signal generators interpretation of a square wave - this seems like it should be familiar to you - as each progressive harmonic becomes less powerful proportional to it's distance along the frequency axis from the fundamental. Infinite infinitesimal energy is not infinite energy, nor do these contradict. It sums to unity (- in our case, the original energy output of the signal generator).

The mathematics proves this unequivocally. If it doesn't make sense looking at a energy vs frequency plot, look a little longer.

At a large enough harmonic (~30 or so, typically) the magnitude of the harmonics will be so small as to be undetectable to conventional sensors, but that doesn't mean they don't exist.

 @titusbaumgartner7579 Thank you for responding. I assume from your certainty you do not know my theoretical point has not been resolved, even though practical applications work well enough. I know theories postulate solutions that infinity sums to unity. The initial state power is somehow a limiting factor, although infinite harmonics are theoretically produced? That the magnitude is so small it can not be detected does not prove it does not exist. If you are right, actual infinity would not exist, which I disagree with. How is "Infinite infinitesimal energy is not infinite energy" since it never reaches a point of non-exitance across infinite time? Unless it's detection has an effect on it's existence? But here lays the practical and my disagreement with theory unbounded, and why I bring up quantum physics. We are ignorant, and it is a good thing.. I did review the infinite series must "Sum to unity" to save us arguments because it makes sense with what we see, on the macro.

Me: so when can we get propellers in our car wheels & fly like the GTA 5 cheat mods?

The abbreviation for number is no. not num.

TiTans if cnc did a video on the company that machines the sharrow marine prop that looks very similar. Check it out. I believe he goes into a little about the creation of the prop as well.

This video is showing wind making the props turn.  As opposed to the props creating thrust.  There is a difference in design from wind turbines and aircraft propellers.
Take the three different prop designs and their comparative sound.  Then compare the thrust differentials.  Is there a sweet spot compromise for thrust and reduced sound?
As in, is the quietest design the lowest thrust?  What difference is there in the  energy demand for the designs?

THX

interesting but lots os tribological problems on two blades with counter weight.

Can you send 2 black 3.0 in mail that are in tube?

what is the program you used for the simulation?

Ever since I came across Noctua CPU fans on Linus Tech Tips, I have been wondering how tgey work, and if it can be applied to drones. .

I guess Action Lab can cover that too.

ya, huh, there was a time I did all those tests some 5 years or more ago just for fun, no they weren't posted on youtube however. Implementing what nasa and the aviation world have been doing on full size craft here and there and expanding on the "what if's" 
Fine work you added mathematics to the equation, giving more public exposure to fun ideas in aviation noise generation/cancellation.

question: if you get the blade passage frequency above the human hearing range, does that create the world's quietest fan?

hi, well there are some propellers named toroidal, wich happens to be more efficient and perhaps quieter. :)

Me looking at my (loud) pc fans… and getting ideas 😈

but how does it affect the aerodynamics?

I forgot I was wearing earbuds with loud bass for a second, and I was wondering why the "quieter" one sounded super loud.

Oops.

When did he move out of the garage?

How about a Toroid-zipline hybrid? Still 2 bladed with the counterweight, except the blades are fused together with the toroid design. Would that even work?

3:31 which is great and all but just as ship sonar may or may not going screwing with whales and dolphins what effect wilol these  louder freqs do to things like elephanets and such like?

don't AH64 tail rotor use that?

So now someone has to do unevenly spaced toroidal props

2:19 i understood the 85Hz number as this was the frequency at which you were getting a peak at your phone , but i didnt understood from where you got the 83hz no

Not sure but the sound of the blade may not be as important is efficiency. This video completely ignores how efficiently the propeller moves air. Less efficiency equals more fuel, less flight time and less payload.

1:10 wow that thing is so off center lol!!

So that's why the tail rotors on the Apache attack helicopters have that uneven spacing. They'd want to be as quiet as practical to reduce the chance of detection by the enemy.

That look like a coconut palm pinwheel kids play

How about toroidal propellers?

If you really want to reduce blade passage frequency, a single-bladed propeller would be hard to beat.  Believe it or not, around 1940 an American propeller manufacturer produced and sold single-blade, counter weighted propellers for light airplanes. A number of aircraft owners used them on their airplanes.  I discovered this some years when I acquired some period Popular Aviation Magazines and found in the pages advertisements for the propellers.

Is it just me or does it sound like the unevenly spaced blades sound like they were pushing more air?... should have waited till the end, it's justme 😂

Really kool ❤

does anyone have an stl for this propeller?

I wonder if someone will combine the two technologies by having a two-blade (loop) toroidal propeller in which the two loops are of different sizes (one narrow and long, the other wide and stubby).

Are thise propeller blades jagged around the edges because they are rough 3d printed without cleaning up, or is it some design intent??
(random jagged edges can't help improve airflow really)

This is the reason old Ford engine fans have an offset blade spacing.

I'm wondering, as a prop turns, it moves air backwards, if that 2nd blade is below that, it will be working on that already moving air, as opposed to newer air, yet to interact with the prop, so would this increase air flow and thus
 propellow power...

Hi could you contact me as I have a design which could be a propeller that makes almost no sound but I have no way to make it to test

Look closely at your car cooling fans.

would this be good for fans ?

Toroidal props are all the rage, man.  Currently, for outboard motors for example, they cost 10 times as much as a conventional prop.  But they reduce fuel consumption by up to 20%, as well as reducing cavitation by 40%, and noise is REALLY reduced.

You should put the sticker in both opposite side of the blade. Otherwise blade will be unbalanced, i enjoyed your video alot

I wonder if they can learn from submarine silent running propeller design?

I didn't see an 83hz.  He had a 43hz which is (modulo rounding) half of 85.

No way I was thinking a very similar thing?! Yeah easy to think of but I wonder how it would actually pan out though

comebine both, and make the ultimate siltent propeller.

I know this is slightly off topic but could you control the timing of two engines to create destructive interference and effectively silence a plane?

I don't need a silent propeller. I need an efficient propeller!

how about propellers on submarines? i think most military ones have odd number of blades, e.g. 7, whats the science behind those?

Try a larger 2 blade prop to generate appxomately the same lift as the other two props then compare frequency.      Been flying FPV drones for nearly 10 hears now, if I wanted a more qhiet fixed blade I wohld go larger two blade prop over smaller multiblade every time.    Not sure there is good enough benefits from the added mass of a stacked 4 blade to mimic a 2 blade when I could just run a bigger two blade.     Have flown everything from high performance micros at 3inch to common 5/6 inch then moving to 8/10 inch high performance racing drones to include 13inch 80+mph Xclass racers.     Biggest in construction is 22inch props and the difference is marked changes when going to fewer blades.

Can the loss of windspeed across designs and spacings be compensated for by changing the propeller's angle of attack for the same rpm? and would this equate to equal power usage (and therefore battery life)?... I don't know enough to answer those questions.

Thankyouuuuuuuuuuuuu

Most radiator fans on cars are like this as well to help with noise.

Great video. No where's the STL? We need at least DLP printed examples, not blick layed fdm sample.

"If you like this video then remember to like this video" - likeception

The lowest amount of noise is a prop not spinning at all. But then there’s no thrust. 🫤

@mrbmp09
0 seconds ago
Some record speed attempts with RC planes used 1 blade counter balanced props.

So you gave finally caught up to a 5 blade offset radiator fan out of a car?

What about the evolution of the owl feather and its wind silencing features. Could that be a good idea to use and design a blade that has the same values of silence the Owl displays? How many times have humans mimicked mother nature to achieve modern marvels.

See Airbus helicopter “fenestron” tailrotors with asymmetric blade spacing. Eg CG H-65 changed from an eleven-blade evenly-spaced fan to a ten-blade differently-spaced fan a couple decades ago.

Would this work with wind turbines  to make them quieter?

A thrust bench from hobbyking is pretty cheap and will give you much better insights than measuring wind speed :)

I wonder if this principal could be generalized to make less noisy electric motors for things like blenders and vacuum cleaners. Essentially space the arms of the rotor so that they're is no natural harmonic in the audible ranges

Ok let's make a drone having 20001 Hz noise frequency

Hey @TheActionLab!  You should get together with @ChrisRosser about these propellers. Watch his latest video and you'll see why 🤠

With all the talk about toroidal propellers and their noise reduction benefits, could Zipline have joined the tips of the two long arms on this design to make it even quieter?

Now how long until someone turns this into a musical instrument?

If you like this video remember to like this video

would an EDF with these blades be even quieter?

Yes, noise is an impotent issue. But the main purpose of propeller is to produce thrust. So the correct comparation of propellers is to be made providing they generate the same force rather than they just are of the same diameter and spin with the same rpm.

Does spinning faster really mean less efficient?  Id be more concerned with ratio of wind speed to power used.  A better test would be to measure thrust.

Cool.

Does it change lift characteristics?

I'm a med guy but suddenly why am i interested in propellers 😬

How about one blade and a counterweight? I imagine that the efficiency would suffer greatly, but the noise reduction should be better.

Isnt it possible to throw soundwaves up and still get lift? Or just throw the soundwaves sideways?

might make an elephant crazy  (:

its like a hornet and a mosquito sound :D

3:41 is it mee of does it look like someones been steal helocopter seed i.p lol

Also lower frequencies require more energy to travel farther that's why subwoofers might be 300 w and the regular speakers are 50 w.  At 2 meters away and further 4m, 16 m ... they get quieter.

Is there any effect on thrust?

Apple talked up big about doing this with the MacBook Pro fans back around 2012 I think. Wondered since why no one seems to do it for things like exhaust fans etc they are often loud.

does he have a small man bun? Lol

For all I know 4 blade was actually quieter for me 😂

Okay, but like what if you have an unevenly spaced toroidal prop?

It should work

RTX off... RTX on

Static balancing of props is very different from dynamic one. There is a reason why nobody uses a single-blade propeller.

if you could make the propellers 1.618 nautilus gear shaped that interlock 4 ways you could direct the air in a perfect golden ratio frequency

Can it be explained why not increase the frequency so it’s inaudible? For example the base frequency is 5kHz then speed up 6x or adding more blades. It’s shown in your chart that human can’t hear beyond 20kHz

That's why loudness for humans should be measured in sone.

Can we use reverse wave white noise cancelation speaker placed below the shaft pointed at the blades?

Looks like inspired from Dragon fly wings. So much we learn from nature!

I would like to get a quieter prop on my drones.

So why don't to make propellers configurable for drones to reach silent hanging in the air? That's pretty much useful improving.

Now we can make better music with propeller

2:40 I'm not sure that comparing noise at the same rpm is the right way to do it, because different propeller shapes probably provide different amounts of lift.  The noisiness of a drone would depend on how much noise it makes when it's carrying its payload, and if different props turned faster or slower to carry that same payload, they might be less objectionable.

Zip line should sell aftermarket blades for drones and use the money for their business development.

The best way to compare two propellers should be with the thrust, not the rpm. Because with different designs and same rpm the thrust can be different.

..and somewhere Harry Nyquist is smiling.

I wouldn't be surprised if the spacing and angles of the blades was chosen to cause phase cancelation in upper frequencies. Or it could just be an optimization of the counterweight with respect to the stacked and rotational offsets.

What's the name of the laser tool you are using?

cool

Combine the offset and the toroidal! $$$

It’s a self destructing cyclone😮toroidal

MIT didn't come up with jack, the toroidal prop is already patented by Sharrow and produced for years, for boat use.

hi ghostm have you become a flat earther yet?

Yes another good way to compare is to base it on the wind speed. At 8:10 I talk about that

Yes, good point but I wonder if "phase cancellation" for noise could also cancel the net amount of "lift" force.  At bottom the propellors must generate force by pushing air, and pushing air is noise.   Apparently per his video, goal is to push it a low frequency since human ears do not notice low frequency pushes.

Would the golden ratio be quieter?

Fun with plasticware.  :)

What if they made the same with the toroidal? Put it in different levels...

Did you compare the performance/thrust of each design? Kinda bad it it would have to spin 20-30% faster on ‘improved designs’
I also think blade proximity between motors on the quadricopter would also have an effect on generated frequencies. What if they weren’t aligned perfectly e.g. would be 45° apart on four blade design on diagonal motors or 60° on three blade…

I thought it was just the engine sounds.

How is static air pressure?

Sweet

....HOW DO THE "WEIGHT", AND "THRUST" VARIABLES COMPARE?!...

same rpm for lower lift - more lift more thrust noise

These staggered propellers are used on helicopter tail rotors for decades.

6:07 equally noisy to my ears

Wouldn’t it be useful to also know the thrust to noise ratio? If one is louder but produces a proportionally higher amount of thrust, wouldn’t that cancel out the sound benefit? I imagine the answer is somewhere in between.
Although, losses to noise mean less efficiency so maybe I’m wrong. I just think you’re missing a major element of the comparison by only evaluating noise and rpm and excluding thrust.

You need to compare at same thrust, not same RPM. Also, you can just change 4-blade to 2-blade and even 2-blade to 1-blade.

Apple did this on their laptop fans at one point

Super cool science. For drones to be more ubiquitous they definitely need to be quiet. But 4.43 million subscribers omg! Other creators with sophisticated production techniques struggle to get 100 thousand subs. There is quite a market for just demonstrating science and talking to your audience simply and clearly.

information        depending on a prop's stiffness, the blades can flex/un-load; especially, at high rpms.      consequently, your printed props probably suck, even more than is obvious.!            one reason for the drop in efficiency is, the trailing blade is always encountering air that is turbulent, from the passage of the leading blade.

instead of trying to make a blade quieter . why not contain the sound with something around the blade that lets air through but blocks sound waves?

Makes you wonder if the reduced Hz value is one of the reasons that dragonfly's wings are more in that pattern than an "X" pattern. It allows them to fly and potentially sneak up on their pray better because of the reduced noise.

AH-64 tail rotor

More research required

You can't notice tone difference

@ haha

Bahahahaha ikr lol!!!

I’m sure the design is a good one since it’s been around for millions of years. However, considering that dragonflies don’t spin their wings around in a circle, any advantages in design would be completely unrelated to the subject of the video.

Problem with energy now if we speed up for matching traditional fan then it will consume more energy 😢

This is a job for Tom Stanton.

I wonder if this is the same reason why the tail rotor on the AH64 is offset like this.

I wonder if it is possible to use a type of rotor like the zipline on a helicopter tail rotor.

You must not compare sound volumes at same rotation speed, as the different designs results in different thrust forces. What you want to compare in fact is the difference of noise levels at the same effective force!

thats what cooling fans on cars do. the spacing is unevenly spaced. 3 blades on one side, then alot of space and than 2 blades. maybe a little wider to balance its weight.

but maybe this design works for light weight aircraft like drones and not for helicopters / manned air crafts where reducing the air gaps causes higher frequencies but provides enough torque to lift the helicopter mass faster with less needed energy

so, the next obvious question is what happens if you toroidalize the zipline propellers?

More proof that a Dragonfly is awesome.

Hi, just to say a word about the efficiency difference claimed at the end, propeller efficiency is a quite complicated topic but the way it is eyeballed here is wrong, you at least need to compare the thrust per watt (N/W) of the motor-propeller system in order to have an idea, otherwise one propeller could move less air for the same speed but also induce less resistance on the motor and you wouldn't know.

Nuclear submarines are silent.
How does a multi blade (6 or 7?) scimitar propeller stack up?
C-130 Hercules aircraft??

How Do Zipline's Silent Propellers Work?

FYI there is a tree in bangalore with similar 1 wing design of its seed ... and hehehe i have an idea...

no reel test of zipline......... on web  why ???,

I was thinking about “less efficient” due to needing to spin faster. If less efficient means draw less current, it seems to me that a faster blade with the same amount of resistance would require the same amp draw by the motor. Wouldn’t the resistance be the same to reach the same wind velocity? Of course, there could be a change in resistance if the motor creates more internal friction at higher speed, or other incidental differences at higher speed, but it seems to me that it would be very insignificant. Why do wind generators have only 2 blades, and turn slowly? First thought would be to have many blades, like the old farm windmills, and spin faster. But speed doesn’t generate electricity, the 2 blades generate enough torque(?) to spin the generator at its optimum speed through gearing. I’m not an expert engineer, so I might have used incorrect words, but overall am I right?

Can't someone ask chatgpt to design quiet propellers? Curious what they would look like..

I wonder i😢f this principle would help make WIND GENERATORS quieter?

I am guessing the propellers spaced apart on the Zipline has as much to do with efficiency as sound. On the same plane the second propeller will be in the air stream of the first. By moving it to a different plane, it should grab cleaner air and therefore move more air.

how about an asymmetrical toroidal prop ?😉

👍

Try counter rotating blades.

You are right. Can't believe no one mention the AH-64. It is the prime example of this propeller.

The 3d printed propellers should have been made on a resin printer for a much better surface finish, or at least sanded down and smoothed over with filler. The leading and trailing edges should be as refined as possible on props. I would also use a brushless motor for the tests, since that's what you'd use with these props on a real drone. Brushless motors would also allow you to control the rpm precisely, so you don't have to settle with "close enough." Lastly, instead of measuring the produced wind speed from the props, it would make more sense to measure thrust from the props using a scale. I am usually a huge fan of the action lab videos, but this one seemed far less scientific than the others.

Make a mercury engine. I am curious if the science is sound or not.

it would be a great idea for zipline to just start producing them for the drome market and by that raise some funds fore there goals...

Makes me wonder what  Fibonacci props would look like, or if you used prime numbers to regulate the spacing.....hmmmm

Isn't there a function in fusion 360 that'll help with weight distribution? I don't use it because anything I try to do it tells me I need to pay for it.

Apple uses this principle to reduce noise emitted from the fans on their laptops.

Are these supposed to be on the main drone or the payload drop drone?  The box that drops down with the payload on the line needs to stabilize itself, not lift itself, so the blades there should be oriented like a plane rather than like a quad copter.

Ashneer grover spotted

I would like to point out a flaw: you were measuring RPM not force the propeller is pushing. You would need the propeller to push a certain amount but the rpm doesn't matter, so long as you reach that goal. Not trying to criticize I just wanted to point that out.

Yes I'm late to the party, but the glued-together drone props are turned the wrong way. By that i mean the downwind blades are lagging the first blades, putting them directly in the prop wash; if they were leading there might be enough space for the first blade's vortices to clear the gap before the next blade passes, like all your 3D printed blades.

10,000 seems awfully fast! Could the measurement device have detected each of the blades instead of only the reflective tape? I feel like they were probably closer to 2500. Thoughts?

make a blade like a venitian blind and its quiet as hell once you position them properly.

Apache tail rotor

If you like this video remember to like this video ❤

lightweight, efficient and quiet, you can only have 2.

The vibration has to be the main reason this doesn't work for video drones.

Small airplane pilots:  Whatever.  We don't care that our airplane noise bothers you.  Now if the cockpit noise levels were lower, well now we are interested.

What about a video on sound cooling or heating ur house. Only  a couple videos on it and they say they don't under stand it completely and maybe u can figure out a better way to transfer heat. Wrote other comment to early.

Just paint the ones u have with something rubbery

reminder that you own air space above your land and can shoot down any drone that violates your airspace

From the shots in the Mark Rober video these are shown on the lifting drone. Not sure on the payload stabilization fans though. Although pretty sure those won't be very loud, they don't need to produce any significant lift, just enough thrust for minor position adjustment

It is a little counter-intuitive but apparently the most efficient propellers use only a single blade with a counterweight, that's what's used in lightweight efficient flight competitions. For multiple blade configurations, I postulate that intervals based on prime numbers would eliminate resonances the best. My theoretical design would use three blades positioned at 7, 11, and 13 intervals apart (total increments 31, or 11.6 degrees per increment). The thickness, width, and attack angle of blades can be varied for weight and lift balance, and to mitigate any residual resonances.

I would love to hear from anyone who has the resources to design and test such a propeller. I make no claim on the rights to it. As concerns the frequency distribution, it seems that more blades should allow for slower rotation vs. fewer, for the same thrust produced. The blades can also pass in different planes, and even be positioned at varied angles (i.e. more or less than 90 degrees) relative to the shaft, to minimize turbulence interactions between blades.

Fdm probably wasn't a great choice to print those blades

Why is everyone saying the toroidal prop is new? I've seen these on actual aircraft in the 90s!

are the edges serrated like humpback whale fins or is it just from the printing? oh and what about uneven thoroidial blades, shouldnt they combine both effects? and how about covering the surface with tiny spikes like sharkskin, that should reduce friction.... i feel like all these inventions combined should provide the perfect solution, but it probably doesnt work like that 😂😅

repeat the same test with a toroidal propeller with a counter weight on 1 side

But what about thrust?!  You may decrease thrust when modifying blades!

How about two blades ? Just like Black Hornet Nano !

Very impressive. But now, could you please try again in a vacuum chamber ? 😉

Next step is to 3D print a MIT type Torroidial blade .....and find it is significantly quieter than any conventional prop blade design.

Less efficient means smaller range.

Does it have less lift though, since more leakage?

Zipline got an advantage in their design.
They got almost constant speed during the whole flight.
This gives them an advantage when it comes to balancing propeller and they just need a design optimized for one speed..

what are 22 states of matter how would they look like are they same

You Sir, need a resin printer and your props shall be buttery smooth.

Zipline got props facing down compare to traditional drone

7:27

Zip line balanced toroidal anyone?

This is very clever and I am sure we are only scratching the surface of what science and technology can accomplish. 

However, one point that we humans keep conveniently overlooking is that we are not the only guests on this planet and just because, in this particular case, we are designing drone propellers or submarine propellers that are producing noise at different frequencies inaudible to the human ear it does not mean that other animals cannot hear them as well. I wish that our species was more conscious of it.

I have a feeling toroidal propellers will IMMEDIATELY replace these because they are both quiet and ultra efficient.

my 1st view.  Nice!  A retired guy who likes to think about stuff like this (and not do anything!).

Ah, you answer that

What in the heck is wrong with your print omg 0:56

That's awesome. 
Now do jets.

Next time, can you demonstrate the toroidal blades? I get the ones you showed are probably just mock up's to show what they look like but don't actually work.

Why not tune the sound to a more healing frequency like 432hrtz

To my older butt, the lower pitch one is significantly louder.

And toroidal propellers? Oh, you read my mind.

how bad does it wobble

Single piston engine planes have become a tremendous nuisance in communities everywhere as general aviation airports keep expanding

They are as noisy as flying lawnmowers

I can’t wait until they take this 90 year old technology, and bring it up to date with quieter propellers

....how does it work?

How about dual counter rotating blades and the number of blades. Perhaps fives blades are quieter than 2 blades.

High freaquences fade out faster with distance, also lower frequencies penetrates easier the obstacles, so this invention is just to annoy neightbours.

Guy lives in an echo chamber

challenge accepted. soon

Uneven spacing isn't new.  I've seen automotive radiator fans with either the double straight blade arrangement, or like 5 blades all randomly spaced.  Also, they seemed to be ducted fans, with an outer ring connecting the blade tips.  Something tells me the toroidal propeller designers forgot about the ducted fan when designing these.

Where is the silent propeller?

How about thrust?? Is it the same?? That's what really matters

Hi... nice... I just had to question your comment that spinning the uneven blades faster was less efficient...without showing a POWER measurement, the voltage input might be higher, but back-emf might reduce the power... but, it would be best if you could do a plot of power vs. moved air volume... again, air flow speed may not allow for a larger volume of air being moved...not saying the volume of air is larger, just that, like power, it's the real measurement of the conversion efficiency...kind of like the difference between Lumens and 'candlepower'. The simulation software looks pretty good!

try no-moving-parst heat energy pulse jet heat sink thruster

Ever seen those bicycle propelled helicopters, the helicopter that is powered by a bicyclist. That helicopter is very quiet. Replace the bicyclist with an electric motor, and you have a silent helicopter. It may not be the most efficient helicopter though.

I wonder if you could get better drone results by using 4 different propellers to spread the sound over even more frequencies. Also you didn't spin up or play the sound of the toroidal blades.

Counter rotating blade are horrible for sound, but good for performance.

fyi - in this case, the metric of performance  was, simply,  'exit velocity'.       not any of things you mentioned.

 @daviddavids2884  Thanks for quick reply!  Impressive!
yep, understood, just being my normal, picky self... I did work on designs that ran to 500 million devices per year, and needed to be able to "dot the 'I's"  But, overall, nice....I jumped over to Simscale, had a look, but it was quite unclear what the limitations of the 'community' sign up are.... Have you seen any experiments with 'feathered' trailing edges, or 'shark skin' surface treatments?  I saw some interesting work on the flow characteristics of a kind of shark skin surface, at different scales.
Being a bit of a nosy guy, mayhaps I should have a look at some other videos  :-)  Cheers from 🇨🇦 in 🇩🇪

cone/triangle stacked heat sink plates duct bill

fully ducted enclosed (wind flow thruster only)

30° apart do you mean like dragonfly wings???????????

What if MIT’s toroidal design and Zipline’s design were combined? 🤔

The acoustic tiles need to be on the wall you're facing, so they absorb the sound and don't transmit it back - they're doing you no good whatsoever on the wall behind you.

Or, if you're feeling cheap, hang a sheet >8cm from the wall. But, please, do /something/ to mitigate that high-frequency bounce.

30 degrees got it!

I would really appreciate a darker background for your Videos
I can't watch them at night like this

Okay, so now do unevenly spaced, offset, toroidal blades. :)

Wouldn't either curved blades (like some airplane propellers, a sickle or scimitar blade) or blades with tip pods (like many military helicopters have these days) help as well? They were designed with exactly this in mind, although how the scaling works down to drone size, I'm not sure (still the same air viscosity and pressures, but curvature and comparative drag for each feature is very different, you can't just scale-down directly).

I see unevenly spaced  and counter balanced. I see toroidal. i Wonder: why not both?

I think zipline just have two propellers one is a backup.

It seems like their more concerned with sound pollution than making the propeller more efficent.  I'd work it the other way, make a better propeller then work on sound dampening, no?

post the stl an the horror will end

Now that I know this I demand propellers that sound like a Rolls Royce Merlin, or a Pratt & Whitney radial. 
For my RC planes of course. Somebody, get on it!

Isn't it reasonable that fan blades that push less air make less noise

It's so simple! All we have to do is figure out how to clone owl wings. Owl wing props! There ya go. You're welcome.

The compromise is less thrust and efficiency….

I've been looking forward to utilizing toroidal designs in my series of books. 💪😎✌️ Anyone following DD very closely might immediately understand why, too. Maybe. 😉

🐲✨🐲✨🐲✨

nice shirt

Why would you say it just, goes away..
.it cancels out..

I don’t care about the sound so much as how much airflow is moved, so with the uneven spacing is the airflow reduced for the same rpm, pitch, number of props and length of propeller?

why don't just add noise canceling speaker to a drone to make it quieter ?

Actually the curved blade (for military helicopter) is more due to the air speed difference at the tip compared to the main body... So having it reduces the flutter and the inherent induced structure failure. 

Noise is just a by product

...do 'winglets' do anything on propellers...?

I get it. You sacrifice some of the efficiency in return. At least that is what I expect to happen. Lets see.

If you designed the blade angle and gap well for a specific operating rate of rotation, you could even make it so that the pulses from the 2 blades cancelled each other out due to destructive interference, in a given direction, ie down to the person receiving the delivery.  This is basically the same concept as beamforming in Wifi5 router, or in DishyMcFlatFace, except that the intent is to form the beam 90 degrees to the receiver.  So, try tuning your distance and angles, do a little math with the speed of sound and your fundamental frequency.

Better than MIT

Yea' but what's the difference in thrust, if any, because, that's what it's primary purpose is.

I wonder how this will affect animals in the long term. I've been using my drone for nest monitoring and I've noticed very different behaviors in reaction to the drone between species, with the same drone, basically at the same rights and flying patterns. I can't tell for sure if it's the sound only or anything else, but it most likely plays a huge role. And similar issues are described for underwater turbines and wind turbines... Isn't there a way to cause some destructive interference between the soundwaves emited by the propellers to minimize sound all over the spectrum? like... maybe tuning each propeller differently or so? It most likely will impact performance, but a good balance could be found.

I'd MUCH prefer EFFICIENCY over sonic comfort!

There are airplane engines with two sets of propellers stacked atop of each other. The two propellers spin in opposite directions. What is the efficiency and the noise reduction of this propeller system?

cool beans

Unfortunately same RPM doesn't mean same lift for the different designs, sure the frequency is lower, but this alone didn't quite show that the overal noise is also lower when the design asks for the same lift capabilities. I'm sure they are still more pleasant since they're being used, but I'd like to see even a basic lift force measurement to equalise instead of RPM. Still, cool design

We may perceive then as quieter... but can't that make it more dangerous? Whether a sound can be heard or not, is it still not equally damaging to the human ear and body (and brain)? If I'm not mistaken, they make infrasound weapons (and devices that make people sick).

What ghastly propellers you printed!

Is noise related to thrust?

Seems to me the apache helicopter has this on the tail rotor.

I'd like to try these out on my racing quadcopter to see how quiet they are compared to the ones I'm using now.

You need to design a propeller that has the opposite phase and they will cancel each other out. Phase cancellation.

unevenly spaced blades seem imbalanced, maybe I am wrong but wouldn't we see premature wear on bearings?

0:32 ouch! Recommended to invest in a better printer.

Maybe try reaching out to Zipline?

Your test setup may be confusing the sound frequencies produced and their loudness. You should not attempt to operate the two airscrews simultaneously (giving beats) and certainly not at different locations on your shelf which is also acting as an oscillator in resonance ie. a "sounding board."

ygvuyt

My butt has the capability of low frequencies. It’s deadly and silent 😵

Would that work with a different load mass?

 @Uthael_Kileanea  that's a good point.  If the drone delivers max 10% of its weight then you could bias it to -5% from ideal so that it goes to +5% from ideal when the load is released.  5% of 90 degrees is 4.5 degrees, sin(4.5 deg) is 0.078, so 7.8% the energy,  but it wouldn't be alone, so effectively less than that.  Could be solved with variable pitch propeller(s) so thrust is variable with the same RPM, but probably not worth the complexity.

Also, the majority of listeners wouldn't be directly below.

 @Uthael_Kileanea  The "beam" in "beamforming" is a bit of a euphemism - ideally it's twice as loud in one direction, and silent 90 degrees to that, with a smooth transition as you transit the arc. So twice as loud horizontally at the height of the drone, and quieter vertically, ie where the customer and their neighbours are.  About the same at 45 degrees down in all directions.  Once it's no longer hovering it gets more efficient, so it mostly matters during the moments of delivery.

hi borrero have you become a flat earther yet?

 @flat-earther  I'll take that as an insult.

Efficency good.. Noice terible

Rwanda is Wakanda in disguise

Pulsating wind is not the same as sound ! With a usual microphone one can not distinguish both. Pulsating windpressure has a much higher engergy-content (kinetic energy of the air) related to sound and sound-pressure. In the some distance from the turning blades the wind ceases and there remains only sound.

6:26 that was literally ear rape, and uncomfortable at phone volumes

Think Porsches sound design goes similar rules.
How much does it effect the efficiency?
Oh explained it 😂

Frequency

This video is for DJI

“the propellers are designed to reduce noise”

“the internet is buzzing”

seems like they didn’t reduce the noise then, only moved it online

Sounds like the uneven propellors are less efficient (higher rpm needed for same air displacement), which is not a good thing, especially not in a multirotor drone.

I don't think that you made an equivalent comparison, between the 4-blade standard type prop & the 2-blade ZipLine type prop.

You should have done a fair comparison, comparing apples to apples – the standard 2-blade design, & the ZipLine 2-blade design.

The blades need to be of equal length, width, thickness, pitch, etc. for both types, & rotated at the same speed.

Only then can it be considered a valid comparison.

There is a gear reduction on propellers so the rotate at a slower speed than the engine.
 Tweaking the gear ratio so they rotate faster might lessen that loss in efficiency.
 Less engine rpm and faster prop rpm…. Torque from the engine must be considered as well.

It is not half the frequency. The scale is logorythmic? 40 odd decibels is the same as a quiet room. Background noise.

Toroidal props are better for that

I have discovered a way to reduce the noise of a blade by about 90%. 
    The problem is that it loses a lot of its lifting power through. It has Enough that it will barely fly and responds like a bag of sand 😊

You need a better 3d printer or change some print settings

It'ss been known amoung PC modders since the 90's

You oversize the fan and file teeth on the trailing edges of the blade it kills the vortices[ had to teach the browser that word, browser dicts are rubbish ] that wash of the blades. Just like a birds feathers...

This design is a more acoustic design to ape the split feathers of the birds.

You’re spinning the props the wrong way.

sticker not good. Need 2 stickers for balance and calc the half of measurements

I actually like prop noise. If I can't hear my plane it is just not as fun! I didn't understand anything he said.

its only a matter of time before people make PC fans outta these

Chinnock have such a deep cheating beat when they fly over or passing near to you and the sound travels very far

'If you like this video... remember to like this video'  That's too much to ask for... what did you say? (>_<*)

if the sound frequency comes from the ammount of blades and spin speed. could we configure it so the sound is in the ultrasonic range? adding lots of blades.

at around 8000rpm, with 150 blades (lots of thin ones) the frequency would be 20khz (ultrasonic).

would that work in practice?

You might be able to 3d print a prototype

Should be normalized by thrust not rpm

Someone should make i three-bladed prop. Two thin blades close together and one thick, wide counteracting them. Go internet!

Ok, from noise perspective it is ok. But what about performance factors? Thrust? Power consumption? Run time on the same energy setup?
So far, I don't care of sound level my model produces if power consumption goes down for the same performance and as such run time goes up.

Blade passage frequency =  RPM x # of blades
1240 rpm x 4 blades = 3960 hz.  (Not 84)
1240 RPM x 60 sec per min = 74400 rev per second; 74400 x 4 blades = 287600  (not 84 hz)
83 hz /4 blades = 20.7 rpm   (not 1240)

I don't see how, using 1240 rpm and 4 blades the BPF was calcuated to be 83 (or 84) hz.

How long until we get a military toroidal helicopter?

Why not use just one double bladed propeller?

Why create the acronym "BPF" if you're gonna say "Blade Passage Frequency" a thousand times?

faster speed should = to more fuel .... 🤔

So, they're sacrificing efficiency by what amount to achieve the reduction in noise levels? Because the reduction in efficiency means they'll need more battery power to reach the same distance with these new prop designs. It is important to quantify the difference.

It is going to be very interesting to be alive on earth in the next just ten years, with huge battery power densities having been achieved, affordable electric aviation will certainly be the in thing, coupled with EV vehicles. What a great future!

LOOK AT WOBBLE

James, trying to find a way to contact the action lab store. I initially signed up for an annual plan($143.60) but only received two boxes. How do I get ahold of you about this.

Someone needs an sla printer...

Just build birdlike drone and no noise at all.

I can tell you enjoy this one. 

What about Zeus?

3D printing skill : minecraft ?

yesF

So the actual sound pollution is the same, just less annoying for us.

You sound a little sick. Get soon well!

hi nomlocaris, have you become a flat earther yet?

 @flat-earther  sure why not, i prefer flat water anyways

youtube censors so many of my comments so it's not possible for me to convey everything I want

Helicopters use rotors, nor propellers.

Would it still sound louder?

We only produced two boxes. That is the correct price for two boxes I believe. They were $70 each initially. But if you think there is a problem you can email: theactionlabretail@gmail.com

 @TheActionLab  this is per YOUR email I received “After the inaugural box, Action Lab will ship once every three months in January, April, July, and October.” I paid for the ANNUAL plan. That’s 4 boxes. I didn’t pay for 2 boxes. Annual is a YEAR subscription. I realize you may have planned for more boxes that were never produced, however, I paid for that year“quarterly, January, April, July, October”, per your email. Maybe I was the only fool to pay up front for an ANNUAL(years worth) subscription.

ruroidals may be a tad quieter but there inneficint and slow so like just  take reg props and  dont go as fast lol

If these offset pair propellers, like the first example about the difference, are known for /that/ long, why have they never made it into aviation?

nice drip

Bro put noise warnings at least...i left burning my ear when yoh put the mike in front of the propeller

So they aren't quieter at all, just a lower frequency.

Probably not enough lift.

ehhmmm
Irregularly spaced toroids?

Eventually someone made it!!

ccol

Yay magnets!

Med supply drones should be noisy: they emit the inspiring sound of hope

Im a "fan" of this

SO WHAT ABOUT SUMBARINE PROPELLERS? - one of the biggest secrets about modern subs is their prop design. Every time you see a new sub being launched, its props are completely shrouded from view. It simply must be a prop that looks like some of the designs shown here.

Second:)

I was getting anxious that you are talking about a propeller and the only thing you are worried about is sound, like its main purpose is to generate sound.
The uneven distribution as you said definitely reduces the sound profiles but is not generating enough dynamic pressure. So you will need more RPM.

There are a couple of Youtube channels that have tried to use the MIT propeller on PC Cooling fans and a quad drone, again they have shown to be less noisy but less powerful.
Mark did not explain the design of zipline drones probably because they had not sponsored the video and/or he was not allowed to share the design, due to it been a patent pending stuff most likely. they definitely spent some time optimizing the design, so in all possibilities they would have applied for a patent.

propellers are usually much louder when you let them spin in the wrong direction. why did you do that?

USE IA to find best design blade, no one work on this since 1rst blade in wood

Uneven props… Welll… Did anyone check the impact this thing has on the propulsion performance of the propeller?

I think there is a design mistake, not in the propeller but in the propeller + motor system. The blade passage frequency should be lower much lower than 1000 Hz, for the propeller to be near silent. You have tested the motor at 10000 RPM which leads to 166 rps * 4 propellers = 664 blade passage frequency. So try with a lower RPM and a bigger prop should do the trick. Even Zipline drones seem to be using a gearbox. Propellers are not directly connected to the electric motor.

All your propellers turn into the wrong direction.

The main problem is that they are/can be quite inefficient.

 @isaachenrikson3197  Then it makes sense that they're more used for drones where less noise is a far bigger priority than getting several tons into the air.

He posted about that mistake in the comments section. His post acknowledged the mistake, but said it didn't actually make a significant difference in this case. Somewhat surprisingly.  Nicely spotted though

Zipline has no sense because of unbalanced forces transferred to axis. Counterweights reduces vibration by balancing mass , but thrust is generated not in axis line and this will cause shaft bending and probably vibration caused by asymmetry of thrust

They are both equally loud and equally annoying. Then again I have several low frequencies to which my ears are incredibly sensitive right between 120 and 30 Hz to the point where I can diagnose improperly shielded AC current just by listening to the buzzing on the wires in the walls.

filter bank sonograms. search: wiki Wigner distribution function ...The dragonflies are laughing.

silent, grenade dropping drones. suuuka

^5

Stealth Black Hawk Helicopter has exited the chat for National Security reasons. 🤔🤐🇺🇸

Why does this 2 year old video resurface in the middle of the middle east war?

So it's not really quieter but alters the nerve wracking high pitch screech into a more tolerable low frequency drone.

Hey I am _hi no see. I wanted to ask a question. Please check comment for the question. I am curious if you answer.

you need a resin printer so you can make higher quality parts!

So...a leading-edge slat for the prop, not the wing?
Cool.
Prop is wing go roundy-rounders.
Edge-slat wing magic, prop magice.
Fun.
No takes back!
Ammended for your Dining and dancing pleaseure...
The leading slat has low angle of attack; quiet because it doesn't move air abruptly.
It rdirect air into the seconday wing, at a angle that reduces the sharp 'intake pop'.
The trailing edge of a prop is quiter that the leading edge.
Less edge-noise, quieter prop, better performance.
Similar in concept to New anti-cavitation 'double-props' in Boating.

Why not just use toroidal propellers, they can't possibly be much harder to produce than these ones

So humans can’t hear it as well. I wonder what effect the increased low frequency volume will have on other living things, and whether we’ll consider and test for that much prior to wide deployment. (JK, of course we won’t)

Moins de bruit mais une efficience moins bonne.
Cette solution ne sera donc pas retenue.

Does Zipline actually call these "Silent" propellers? or is that just the title of the video? Would a silent blade even be physically possible?

But you forgot to show how much current you are using at the same air  flow. Plus your propeller has the counter weight on a piece of plastic that looks like a propeller, where insted it should be flat. If you notice in the original ones the propellers do. the lifting and the counterweight is flat. Maybe your design has to be updated. Interesting video, I alsonsaw the original zipline video long time ago and waiting to see people testing this idea.

old news check your timeline .....look at helicopters and when was the first  Tail blade mounted 🤔

Saber blades is best

I actually don't get it. In Mark's video he seems to suggest they are not just a bit quieter, but alot quieter. However here you say that not only is it only a bit quieter then regular blades, but also if you fly the drone normally, that is, above you, it would actually be worse then normal?! I really don't get it...

Zipline propellor will break the shaft as the lift is one sided only, a bending action will happen.

I wanted to create high magnetic field around my room how, what way I can create.

Huh? I was more annoyed with the sound coming from the unevenly spaced propellers in the side by side comparison.
The sound was lower AND louder.
The sound coming from the evenly spaced propellers was higher AND quieter when i heard it.

Push the air down 
Instead of pull the air down?

Why do they even want them quieter, to begin with?  How much noise are we talking about?

. . . and are they offered onbeanies yet?

6:16 

No, they do not 👌

Have you ever tried printing on a lathe, so the print can have grooves that are concentric to the propeller's axis?  It would be great for reducing drag on crude propeller prototypes.

boomerang

PC FAN PC FAN!!!

It's done with "real physics?" Is there imaginary physics?

MIT did not invent toroidal propellers. And same as these unbalanced propellers they have been around and in use for many decades already. Just that cause of the reduced efficiency and significantly increased manufacturing complexity they are only used in areas where the noise is the utmost priority.

YA BUT WOBBLE OF AXIS FAR GREATER - DUH

Over 25 years ago I've seen a regular plastic propeller breaking while testing and getting carved halfway through the workbench... And it wasn't spinning that fast, at the time lipos and brushless engines were not available. And it was a quality Graupner propeller, which just had a small defect... So, no way I'll ever 3d print a propeller for whatever testing I may wish to do... Its not reliable nor even secure to use it. if it breaks, you may kill or seriously harm someone... Doesn't worth the risk.

Noctua, get on this

The statement "humans are less sensitive to low-frequency sound" is flat-out wrong. It's only the cochlea and and processing stages that translate mid and mid-high frequencies as louder and thus more annoying. If you are looking at long-term effects of lower frequencies, you will find that tonal components as well as stochastic noise below 100Hz will cause neurological and neuro-otological issues even below the threshold of hearing. Depending on the distribution and duration of sound energy, you can cause permanent damage to the outer hair cells (OHC) of the cochlea, trigger an endolymphatic hydrops and cause kinetosis-like symptoms after only a few hours/days of exposure. While a noise-induced kinetosis will disappear after a while, OHC-damage (causing tinnitus, hyperacusia and a distorted perception of LF sounds, as well as a reduced ability for decoding speach in noise) is permanent and a key risk factor for early onset hearing loss - which in turn is seen as one of the main causes of dementia.
Therefore, while shifting noise towards lower frequencies is a standard method to make machines of all kinds seemingly "quieter", it's a dumb and irresponsible approach from an occupational health / human factors perspective.

Huh, you know something similar is seen with simply going from 2 to 4 or more blades. In full scale aviation two bladed props on high powered aircraft are regular the loudest aircraft in the size, but 4 blades is quite more quiet, and the rarer 5 and 6 bladed propellers even more so, acting like fans vs props, which are very quiet. 

Zipline is probably pursuing a two bladed solution cause for electric powertrains the most efficient number of blades is 2 for endurance (well technically its 1, but thats even more difficult to tune). That being said, I think its very unnecessary for the size drones they want to build. A flat enough pitch 2 bladed prop is extremely quiet on an electric powertrain, as it already is on craft like Inspires from DJI. The solution as unique as it looks might be less pragmatic to service

7:34 Cloud and browser based simulation service? Are we trying to speedrun scaring off potential customers here or what?

I wouldn't call it silent, maybe quieter

toroidal props have been an idea for 100+ years afaik, they just weren't practical to make, and people keep claiming to have invented it repeatedly.

Great, while you geek out on the physics, engineers at companies are developing silent propellers for drones, doesn't that concern anyone?

Is your 3D printer ok?

snd i always thought MIT was full of intelligent people 😂

This is not an especially new idea.  Automotive radiator fans have had funky spacing for this very reason, to make them give off less sound, and for sure a less whiny sound -- more like white noise.

Don’t see the point, the trade off for quieter blades is reduced performance, which means you have to spin the blades faster, causing you to use more energy, therefore reducing the flight time of the drone.

Quieter blades has less efficiency.

Fenestrons

When I see people printing propellers in one piece it hurts my eyes. Print a hub and dove tail blades that press in. Those blades print standing up from the bed so they are perfect. Yes they are strong even though you might not think so

Sounds quieter and less annoying to us, but what about WHALES? 🐳 🐋

Not very « scientific ».. so random recording 😂

id rather hear the actual difference than listen to someone tak about the difference

It’s all about the noise - talk about anything but do not mention the scream the engine generates.

Low sound with no thrust is a bit pointless in all honesty.

Dragonfly’s wings makes sense 😊 most successful hunter on earth about 95-98% of success rate with every hunt. And small creatures relies on frequency and smells to sense danger and opposite. …

Great content, but I would be careful with the sites that you advertise such as Sim scale. I may be wrong, but It looks like whatever You upload to the site becomes public use to its customers in perpetuity and royalty free. Just some thing people should know about if they’re excited about a personal project they’re working on as an invention.

Zipline + toroidal = ?!?

bugs have a high pitch. humans don't really like bugs .

I wonder if thats why they destroyed the helicopter that took out osama and u should put the blade on a toy helicopter and see if it even works and is quieter....then scale it up to a full size helicopter 😁...it's only money

That rat tail looks dumb.

I tried sending information about these propellers to some of the Ukraine YouTube channel hosts. Maybe you could get them the information? I never heard back, so I assume they thought I was a crank. Which I am!

Looks like you got your blades from wish lol

Noise frequency?
What about dB?!? 
dB are more interesting.

Depends what you are trying to optimize. For some use cases lower noise profile for a loss in efficiency maybe preferable

Looks like they were made on an FDM 3D printer without much thought for optimizing the print direction. If he printed each blade separately in a different orientation, they would look just like a normal blade.

Please stop referring to the design as MIT, the toroid design was actually used on boat props like 5 years ago.

0:30 I cant watch this
That wont be quieter than jack with that atrocious finish

overtones

That's not a toroidal propeller.

Has anyone ever experimented with using noise cancelling ?
Sounds picked up by audio, then generated by reproducing equally and opposite sound waves ?
Sounds like a no Brainer ?
                          🤔....?

The point of a propeller is to provide lift. Hello? Who cares if it’s more quite but not efficient?

DISAGREE; THEY SOUND THE SAME TO US

Without thrust produced and spin up time this data is useless. You could have 25% less noise but you loose 25% thrust with terrible spin up \ spin down times to add to it.

Welcome to AREA 51
Nice🤍

Is that a 3D printed turd?

Toroidal aircraft propellers have been around since the 1930's (in Europe at least) to say that MIT came up with them is blatantly false!

Also comparing the noise at equal RPM is not a relevant comparison, you should be comparing noise at equal thrust as they will need to generate the same thrust when in operation and not the same RPM.

With no measurements on thrust this comparison is really useless.

As awesome as toroidal propellers seem to be, I am a bit sceptical. Increasinf propeller efficiency would be so incredibly useful for shipping many other areas that it would take the world by storm. But strangely, I still haven't found someone who managed to reproduce MIT's awesome claims.

Man bun looks stupid.  Science is awsome.

So, like how they say whales are disturbed by submarine sonar, what animal are the animal rights going to complain about for the low frequency sound :P

Wrong!!  The entire discussion ignores the basic engineering concept:  What do you want?  What are you trying to do?  For the drones, the high level goal is to deliver payload.  The second level goal is probably cost.  Noise level is at a lower level.  Thrust-to-weight is important to achieve the primary goal.  Near the end, it is shown that the thrust is lower (at a given speed) for the fancy propeller, meaning that the payload goal is not met.  Cranking up the speed doesn't come free.  More power consumption means greater expense and/or reduced range.  There is no indication that, with any reasonable goal weighting, the funny propeller is a good idea.

Not to nitpick, but the finish on the 3D printed blades looks incredibly choppy. That can’t be good for aero and I would think would have to skew any test results you would get.
I don’t see well, but it’s an absolute night and day difference between the blades you bought for your fpv, and the homemade blades.

Your prop is exerting 1/2 the lift so its 1/2 the noise. all other speculation is BS

Like all clowns; Mark Roper should NEVER be taken seriously

Frightening 3D print quality. 😬

Well, if you re-watch the MIT video, you will notice that they give no data (no RPM, no thrust etc. and the graph in the "paper" is meaningless as it again lacks RPM, thrust data etc. And they have these datas, they use a Series 1585 thrust stand). They also mute the torroidal props (pretty scammy). MIT also patented the torroidal props in 2017 (yep, that is 6 years ago) and so far, they don't seem to have anything to show for. Btw, in that patent application they referrence Sharrows but in the video, they do all to avoid that they got the idea from them (also pretty scammy). That is probably the reason why no-one can reproduce their claims.

 @etherealicer  yes, but the commercial boat propellers with similar almost magical properties seem to be available for years now, and many people tout their benefits. But these things could save millions of dollars when mounted to big ships, and yet they aren't. So this also doesn't quite add up, I think.

Go watch  a video chris rosser put out earlier, he tested their efficiency and displays the data with graphs ;)

Love the video but man your 3d print quality is wack. Get the bambu x1.

So both the zip line and toroidal propellers are completely unreproducable by anyone? Nobody has managed to make a quiet toroidal yet either I'm starting to think there's some baloney going on here.

yeah it does really suck he glossed over that really cool thing. its like he thought his audience wouldn't care enough to watch some info on it. kinda rude if you ask me :/

what happend to your hair
??

Ok you need a better printer

Sounds very anthropocentric so far... I wonder if animals will be just as happy about these new propellers... Also when comparing you should be comparing by thrust and not by rotational frequency as thrust will be imperative during operation and not rotation.

First thing that came to my mind was making drones as quiet as possible,  so Russians wouldn't hear Ukrainian drones flying overhead!   But it was pointed out this arrangement did not help.
🇺🇦🇺🇦  Slava Ukraine 💪

I think I would prefer just to walk to the shop and buy what I need rather than wasting my time with annoying drones.

defense contractors taking notes .... Just sayin....

The issue with helping countries like Rwanda etc with high tech and big money stuff is that it artificially inflates a population that ALREADY cannot sustain itself, therefore multiplying the problems. I guess those who make a business of "helping" can only rejoice when the number of people to "help" multiplies.

Guy named Ken Criswell actually is the REAL guy to develope the wings. Its his designe but unfortunately he wasn't smart enough to pat. his invention. So of course the Asians stole it and claimed it. This Ken guy just started making design on his 3d printer and the funny story about this design is that it was an accident.  He heated up the prop to be able to move them around and something happened that made one bend all the way over and luckily he tried it just to see what it did and the rest is history. So if you want to know who the guy is that really came up with the design you now know. Maybe you'll live an extra 10 yrs with this knowledge now that you know some guy by the name Ken Criswell from Kentucky in America is the inventor of the shhhh blade (what he called it on the video)..haha.  The vid is here on YouTube and was uploaded way back in 06 or 07

You made a video to explain the propellers, but then didn't explain the propellers. If you look at the image of their drone propellers, they DON'T have a pair of unevenly spaced propellers. They have 2 blades spaced about 30 degrees on one side, but NO blades for the other 330 degrees, just a blob of what must be a counterweight. So the propeller doesn't look like a cross, or a narrow X like you showed in this video, but more like a turkey's wishbone.

Not meant rude, but your print quality looks very bad. My ender 3 which i really don't have set up the best, prints way smoother propellers

ARE YOU SERIOUSLY SPINNING THAT THE WRONG WAY ???

Today's word "Frequency".

"Silent" needs to be in giant quotation marks.

You used a resonance as a baseline. To compair one prop to another, you have to make sure either both are off resonance, or both are on. When you 'searched for the props highest noise RPM" you were hunting for a resonance. You can't find a resonance on one prop, then compare that prop's noise to another who is not in a resonance. It's fundamentally flawed.

Question that I’ve never understood.  See around 5 mins in, putting the microphone closer to the propeller makes it louder.  Duh.  So how is it possible to measure decibels without doing so from a standard distance?  A jet engine flew overhead and my Apple Watch decibel meter didn’t say 200db, it barely registered.  My headphones turned up super loud can damage my hearing, but I cannot use them as speakers for a concert with 50,000 people.  So wtf is a decibel without a standard distance.  Say a meter.  And don’t tell me "it’s logarithmic" i know that and it doesn’t answer the question.  I’ve looked it up and cannot get a satisfactory answer.  It makes no goddamn sense.  A decibel is meaningless without a standard distance from the sound source.

area 51

I have an idea. What if we were to use the Zipline design with the Toroidal propeller blades? So you get to of the Toroidal props with a counterweight?

I am not interested in noise - give me efficiency

There are two things here I don’t understand   🤦🏻‍♀️  the use of the words -almost exactly - 🤨Almost 👈and 👉exactly 👈  in reference to a thing  that is  NOT  Exactly the same …rather similar 🤦🏻‍♀️.       And what the hell is wrong with ME  🤯  considering  my shit spelling  and   Chaotic grammar  👉I’m dislexic  👈.

So why the hell  dose the improper use of these kinds of word’s  bug the crap out of me .🤔🤷 .

Similarly  - people use the  phrase…. Almost identical  EXCEPT  👉 for the difference’s 🤣😂🤣🤔🤷

It's NOT MITs design!

That man bun has got to go.

Your videos always have just the right amount of unprofessionalism to see how much work goes into them and they still turn out good. 
So thank you for your efforts and greetings from rainy Germany.

you have 4,4m subs, sponsorships, ad revenue and you cant afford better 3d printer?

I don't know why people mentions always toroidal propellers.
They are crap, they are just more silent because they provide only around 40% lift of normal propellers with the same RPM.

When you compare them by their lift force, they need to rotate 3x faster, which leads to a lot more energy consumption and they will get louder either.

So stop this toroidal crap, it's useless. Toroidal propellers provide only benefits in thicker fluids, like water. But for air based applications they are absolutely horrible and crap.

Additionally to that, MIT didn't invented anything, toroidal propellers have been there since the 80's

they don't work, they arnt silent and the company is being charged with fraud by more than one jurisdiction.

Wear glasses maybe 🤓

Ukraine

This is the worst idea, its actually insanely more annoying when you are sensitive to low frequencies to have them around, they tickle, the physically impart feelings of overwhelmment of ability to process that much low, like when a guy at night drives by 10-20 blocks away with his bass up, I can hear him start the car and drive until he gets 2-3 miles out of town, all from inside my house, almost frapping out my inner ear. Loow frequency pollution is worse when it is audible

This isn’t new. Let’s be honest: Have you ever seen an explanation of propellor airflow? Perhaps. But those reports are always childish and incomplete. 

They have to be. If automotive airflow reports were honest, then they’d include a discussion of rolling resistance. How many pounds of force does a Tesla sedan require to drive at sixty miles per hour? Where’s the Consumer Report Chart for all makes and models of cars? There isn’t one, because less rolling resistance equals better fuel economy. But our cars are intentionally designed to waste fuel and gas. And so are aircraft.

And let’s not forget the world’s biggest waste of money: The Osprey. That contraption is designed to cost a fortune and guarantee union factories a paycheck for the next fifty years. So it doesn’t even matter if the Osprey works. 

If you wanted, you could build a big aluminum box and put a rotating jet engine on all four corners. Seats sixty people, and doesn’t cost much. 

The “propellor” helicopters that we have today are all fake. They have thousands of extra parts that keep the unions in business. Sikorsky, Bell, Euro-Copter. All fake.

This happened because the military is a violent, dangerous, stealing machine. Those guys have lots of guns, so they just take whatever they want. The White House is branch office of the Pentagon.

So let’s really be honest: The military coup happened a hundred years ago. Our fake elections, and fake Marines, and fake economy are what happens in the absence of democracy. If voters had to approve the current level of military spending, it would never happen.

So the real conflict isn’t just between the young and old; it’s also between taxpayers and tax receivers. The military needs to reduce spending eighty percent; the VA needs to be closed; and all military pensions cancelled. 

After that, democracy can be reestablished regionally. No more Washington D.C. with it’s Military Overlords, and Mafia Unions. 

But wait! The military likes endless money. And hates democracy.

I think your experiment is flawed. You never once measured the sound in decibels.  You only took the frequency.  You also assume that lower frequency is less bothersome, maybe it is but, lower frequency sound travels further.  It would be better to have a higher frequency at lower decibels.  That way the sound doesn’t travel very far.

Everything you said was right, but your 3d prints are extremely bad and all the props seemed extremely unbalanced, also you didnt measure thrust, so the blades might have been a lot silenter, but they could have made a lot less thrust too.

I'm glad you made this video, but the propeller looks like shit. And as someone who makes as much money as you do... this is kind of a rip

The mic you're using is not good enough to use in a test. That sennheiser me2 has pretty poor sonic response, use a large diaphragm condenser to really get the full spectrum. Even if the response chart says it does this and that, i can tell you that you're boosting the mids and attenuating the highs which is giving an inaccurate representation of the sounds coming off those props. That lav is so bad, that you can't even give it away, we just throw them in the trash.  Get a DPA4060, if sounds much better and works with your sennheiser TX.

Those props are printed horrible, you have a terrible 3-D printer.

that is one of the worst 3d prints that I have ever seen...  >:/

not that you should be using a FDM printer for this, this is a job for a resin printer, you should try using a printing service if you don't have one.

In oval track race cars the fan blades are spaced weirdly too. I don’t think they care about how loud it is but I’d imagine a quieter fan draws less electricity and is more efficient but I’m just guessing here.

To be honest, this is stupid. You end up wasting more energy for nothing. Especially when the only thing above the drone is the cloud while people are usually under the drone who get more noise than symmetric blade design.
Just remember even the cutting-edge military submarine which is the most sensitive thing to propeller noise in the whole world does not use such asymmetric blade design, and this simple fact alone already tells you how stupid this thing is.

Noise is directly related to efficiency.

Hi jacobvarley, have you become a flat earther yet?

No it's not

You’re not doing a very good job of explaining something complicated to lay people.

My favorite blades are the ones on the AH1 Super Cobras and Huey's.
The pop sound is more like a BOP BOP and beats your chest when they fly overhead.
Its so awesome.

Don't do sound readings with ugly low resolution 3D printed props that you don't even bother to try to clean up. At least use a 3D resin printer next time. smh

Which chemical defuses the bulb of a torch from a distance of 6 inches?

In detail: A person switched on the torch and kept it at a distance of 6 inches from the chemical vessel, after a minute the torch bulb (2.4v) automatically switched off. What could be the chemical used in the utensil?

MIT's version is a disappointment for me. It doesn't provide any benefit for a pilot like myself. 
It's just a fancy ducted prop.
 Some people like the novelty, but I was hoping it would have  better performance but it hasn't proved itself to the FPV pilot community.

That is possibly the worst 3D printing I’ve ever laid eyes on, and my 8 year old niece has one of those hand held “3D printer” pens.   Seriously…. How could anyone consider this a legitimate test when the aerodynamically critical surfaces all look like dog $hit?!?!?!?

Mark Rober is a fraud

useless... what engineer will choose silence vs power ? lol

who is the mit you mention haa brough this designs?
Just becose these base on concepts i mentioned more than a decade ago to someone ( A.P.) who has a long history of robbing information and mixing in inbetween of important people (dates to 1983, as she was 8 years old but already became weapons and drugs and used those to interfear with swedish national interests among the ones of other partner countries and private relations to wealthy people ,  to stalk and try to reach american important persons, torturing)
. While robbing about 3000 billion to bitcoin since its creation, and atempting 5 times to kill hdr victim to that robery, she was doing the same for decades to achieve relations that have power and money, but hurting them too, and started raping in 1989 at the age of 11, but hasnt stoped, as the latest case known to me was 2016, 16 cases and 13 children done through violence. To achieve Money, or to avoid legal prosecution.

This is insanelly useful. I've sent this link to Ukrainian drone squad! Thank you!

Isn't Africa supposed to be the cradle of mankind?
How do you get a head start and somehow end up behind the starting line?
Must be Trump's fault.

That's the worst 3d print ever!

You're making a lot of tests on the noise, comparing it when the blades are spinning at the same speed... Using the worse 3d prints I've EVER seen... And ZERO tests on thrust... If the prop is more silent at the same speed but needs to spin twice as fast to get the same thrust, it's not gonna be any more silent. I usually love your channel, but this video is horrible... Looks like it was written by a 6 years old...

do video on zero point energy as an free energy scource

You hear vibrations of disbalance. Not propeller. Tests are scheise...

Your channel is big enough that you can afford an FDM printer for propellers. Why even waste your time testing this PLA garbage.

And the award for the most annoying voice goes to…..

Second 😂

So we're exchanging noise for less efficiency. Doesn't quite sound like a win.

using Centrifugal fan are very quiet and more efficient than propellers  - wonder why not used on drones

I'm willing to try any 4" props that have a 5mm center hole.

What we need is a prop that is quite at higher RPM. 
The props that I'm using or quiet before I launch. 
We use motors that range in size from around 1507 to over 2205, with a kv range of around 3100 on the 1507 and 2500 on the 2205+.
It's difficult to find a balance between quietness and power or performance.
The pitch of the prop makes a big difference.
 A prop with a pitch Of 3.6" is going to be loud But proforms very well.
A lower pitch prop Is quieter but lacks thrust thus lowering the performance.

Lower pitch provides a smooth flight and requires a higher rpm for speed. 
Higher pitched props bring the thrust and speed.

the thoroidal propeller was already mentiond about 1983, but should had been a secret, used in submarines.

I mean, two corrupt persons have been making money and gaining influence with innovations that are not of their own, while at the same time using brutal violence against the someone with such ideas and important persons in his personal relations, and has caused mayor injuries to all of those, indirectly, but lethal, aside that thosr are matter of national interess in each of their countries in europe. Unaware am i if the american wealthiest did also had the status of national interess, what probably isnt as long as the were not polititians or special protected persons.
She might face the truth she is beeing trying to supress, but i have a question to you.
Can you confirm who is the mit you are talking about? A.P is an acronym for her. While A is the first letter of her firstname.

This is most likely highly inefficient, although less noisy. I'd assume efficiency(thus range/less chance of losing it) would be a higher priority than noise for those applications.

hi garyblake have you become a flat earther yet?

 @flat-earther  no, I am not stupid.

Uh why

Those are FDM prints... I think you meant he could afford to get a resin printer. Hell, he could probably get away with an SLS printer at his channel size tbh.

LoL
BTW Saigaijin have you become a flat earther yet?

Or not.....

 @AC-mu6ig  No, with the new technique you get less noise and less efficiency.

He didn't really cover the efficiency. He acknowledged that it needed to spin faster to get a similar thrust, but we have no numbers on the energy differences those two scenarios had.

Moves a lot of air but not a lot of thrust

There's a massive weight difference.

7:20 mispronunciation of the word "coherent."

10 minutes long - this topic really must fascinate you!

Speak like English people please, your accent American too strong yes I can understand you, but that is a bit awkward😮

if you add/mount neodymium magnets in line with the internal magnets, it improves the performance of the brushed motor.
You can mount them on the outside of the motors body.

7:35 "The first cloud based simulation tool"
Simulia has been around for 3 years prior.

fake

Delivering medical supplies in Rwanda sounds great but I find it highly unlikely that all the energy and effort that went into that wouldn’t be better served by a dude on a motorbike.

Nothing is silent.

Overall, if the new propeller design is less efficient, why are they using in Rwanda? Who would care about noise in Rwanda? Instead, they should use the more efficient propeller (= older design which is also noisier), which will enable more medical supplies delivered for each battery charge.

He's doing it for people, who pay nothing to view it.  Grow up and deal with it, or ask YT for your money back...

they call Rwanda the"Switzerland of Africa" for a reason: it's all hills, valleys, twists and turns- drone makes a LOT of sense in that terrain!!

