Thanks I really appreciate your walk through vid, really like how you say exactly what components you are using as you put them in place, not many people do that and it's frustrating when they don't.  I'm brand new to electronics so so it's refreshing to be told what they are, where they go, and what there doing.
Thanks again. Hope you make more walk through vids.  

Awesome tutor on the LM386. Thank you :)

you made it so simple to build , and i have been reading books but couldn't understand what to do, you are awesome..

I believe you need to use a larger speaker so that the low (bass) frequencies can be heard better.

hey man, nice guide! I was wondering, do you have a schematic of this circuit? Keep up the good work

Built this circuit with a 1 watt speaker and fitted it in a coffee tin! I didn't use the bass boost but it's still good for my wee workroom and will be used for testing low output audio circuits and for music on my ipod nano, phone etc. I fitted a pot in the gain circuit on the breadboard but used a 5k resistor in my final setup as that seemed about right. Thanks for your great little circuit. Another happy customer! A bigger amp is my next project methinks!

I got drunk a few days ago and somehow ordered 100 of those IC`s...well at least this is one of the more useful drunki purchases, i just wonder why i baught 100 of them....damn alcohol

I built this bro! Thank you! It works well! Lmao its really cool!

Pretty cool LM386 i made one and use mini transformer to remove noise

I went from this to having a dual LM386 driving to quite large 2 way Sony speakers such that its actually astonishingly loud. It took a while for my soldered board to be debugged but .. yeah. If you have adequate 9v power and efficient speakers. Then later I built a booster circuit with two transistors taking the out put of lm386 and amplifying that - it also sounds good. 1-2 watts of good clean sound can actually be enough to make something nice to listen to.

Thanks a lot, I was looking for LM386 step by step, I wish I saw it 2 days back, waiting for weekend.

That's awesome! it works thank you..

One question,

can i plug a guitar  in this AMP  to drive a 4 Ohm, 3 Watt Speaker?

I want to learn more about this especially the quality of sound and bass and how to get louder sound without that noise

Good video

Thanks for the very detailed tutorial, Do you mind sending me any other files etc that you have on this project that isn't on the website

The Bob Ross of Electronics

Great stuff. A picture of a schematic and explanation would be helpful

you insired me to make circuts ur awesome

I'm just about to build a similar circuit and learning from you, thank you for the clear and well explained tutorial, you have a soothing voice :o)

I got drunk a few days ago and somehow woke up in a strange bed with 10 prostitutes -  before I knew where I was 46 LM386s arrived by courier.

I remember hearing you discuss a business idea with a 30ft tall plastic cowboy in the middle of the night outside a casino. You told the plastic cowboy you would make him rich with your headphone amplifier idea. You needed a 100 LM386s to start production.

I just ordered a thousand of them, and I'm sober...
damn liquor laws

you do this too!

I had 0.30$ on my bank card and i wanted to spend them on something i and i found randomly 10x chips that i never show before i bought them and now im here to see how to use them as amplifier :D

Do not Drink and Shop Online.

I bought all kinds of transistors for a power amp project I was thinking about. And that was after I had my morning coffee.

Haha it's probably the minimum purchase amounts, where you are required to buy 100+ per shipment

I sat on a stickleback on Pancake day and by by St Picklemass Wednesday I had 1600 (add your own weird stuff..) arrive.

That doesn't cut the mustard I'm afraid, I can't party whilst sober.

I've been a very naughty boy indeed and need to be punished.

Depends..how much booze do you have?

uK8cvPAq
None, but I have tea bags.

uK8cvPAq
Haha, can't say I'm totaly disappointed.

How do you party with teabags anyway? Is it something that all the guys can enjoy too?

uK8cvPAq
I've heard about teabagging parties.

Hahaha.

Oooh! I dunno? Ought I?

Exactly the same has happened to me today :p

các ban có thể tham khảo sản phẩm tại: https://www.sendo.vn/lm386-dip-combo-2-chiec-9073922.html

I bought a xbox one while drunk.. in the store

And I did it sire thanks again

Thanks :)

MsMadLemon use a TDA2822M . It is STEREO and sound a lot better. 👍😆

LM386 isn't terrible, but it's very primitive. I use them as general purpose op amps, but they can sound great as a preamp. You can even make a distortion pedal out of them as these distort with a pleasant note when you push the gain too high.

Great video, thank you. Wish you good health and more videos. 12.2020

Teringat masa2  jadul dulu,  salam sukses diy,  very nice,

Is there a schematic for this?

hey, make a headphone amp with bass boost pleasessssssssssss

Just what I needed. I think this would work quite nicely as a low-power pre-amp to shape the tone. 

Correct me if I'm wrong but making a treble boost would just be a matter of correcting the values of the filter for your desired cut off and inverting the positions of R and C so that it's R rather than C that is connected to ground. 

BTW, is there a dual input version of this so that it can manage stereo?

If you're just learning how to build stuff like this, DO NOT do it how he is doing it. Never connect your power supply or battery until you've completed wiring everything and have double checked your work. Maybe if he did that he wouldn't have had a Tantalum capacitor blow up in his fingers.

Nice vid! Do you have any suggestions/recommendations as i want to learn electronics with the goal of building guitar amplifier/effects pedal in mind, i know there are tons of info online but i dont have any idea where to start...thanks!

Amazing tutorial indeed!!! 
Also how big a speaker can I drive through this? I had a 10 W speaker with 8 ohms . How much can the LM386 drive?

exelent video ... just what i was looking for and the step by  step was awsome... 
if u have the change to find a circuit to increase the power of an lm386 amplifier like the one u did ... or another easy to do amplifier to get more watts out of it will be awsome ....  very good video and step by step ... hope to se more of them ... have a subscriber here bro

Nice video like it
Helpful

Thanks sir.

Connect the battery last after rechecking the circuit for shorts.

i'm building one for my speaker for my computer down the cellar

muy buen tutorial felicidades , hola amigo  no se mucho de este tema pero si me gustaria  aprender  aunque no se ingles con los movimientos entiendo un pocoy aparte me gusta la electronica mucho    saludos

can you give exact specifications of capaciter's voltage and speaker ohm and watt plzz

Nice video, could have helped me out a lot more with a couple basic (Even pencil drawn) schematics to help with setup.

this guy sounds like toby from the office

You're a legend

This was very helpful ..can this be used as an onboard preamp for acoustic guitar with coaxial element and possible to add MID TREBLE as well apart from bass boost gain and volume ..much appreciated

Thanks for this video.I am new in this type of things but i like do projects like this.I wonder if i could instead of a speaker , mounting a jack output and make an amplifier to drive my headphones.I am looking for this information on youtube ,but nothing specific about the type of  the amplifier i need.THNX...

Username checks out lol

he did leave part of the audio in hanging out... =D hahaha

@Nope Nope 😹😹

Oh, I was waiting for this in anticipation on this video. You should’ve said it happened in another video.

gatekeeper65 why not?....that just takes all the fun outta of it...haha

gatekeeper65 Reminds me of when I was learning about motor controls. I tried to make changes to my circuit without removing power, and I vaporized the end of a banana plug.

I mean, when I was like 6 I blew up a yellow led... it was fun ig

Thanks, glad you liked it!

very good idea

I made this thing on a copper perf board, and ran it on a 5v supply from a mobile charger. When there's no audio signal, there's no static noise. But playing audio produces lots of noise. I don't currently have a 9v battery to test out. I'll test with a 1000uF cap on the power input to see if it's better!
Do you have any suggestion?

vwey good sir, you have a new suscriptor

Thanks for this video, I am creating a small stereo speaker/headphone amp, and I think I'm going to use your design, modified slightly. Do you think using a MOSFET for a preamp (before entering into the POT/ground would increase the quality of the amp? OR would it simply make the volume far too loud, and go beyond the IC's voltage? Would it be better to use the mosfet/transistor amp on the output of this amp? OR is this no reason to do either? I also want to add a couple filter circuits to the output to increase the quality. Since an amp is really only useful for very expensive, and high-quality headphones. I am a noob at electronics, but this is my first 'real' project, meaning im going to fully assemble each circuit, add it to a quality metal case, cut out a user interface for the gain/volume, (on/off  LED), bass control,  Two 3.5mm jacks(in, out), and probably 4 speaker wire clamps for unpowered speaker hookup. My question about the secondary amps are especially aimed @ the passive speaker outputs since they would require much more power, and likely a larger signal than a pair of headphones.

I'm sure ill fail miserably on my first few attempts.. actually I've already put together like 2 working mono amps, 3 non-working stereo amps, and 1 working stereo amp, and a whole lot of non-working LM365 amp circuits... thank god for your video here, or I would never have figured it out...

Also, do you think you could do a few more video's on audio amps? This one seems to be really popular... I'd love to see you do a stereo version of this same amp, also a few diff classes of amps especially ones which use only Transistors/MOSFETs/etc.

It would be interesting to test it. Put a oscilloscope on it and a load. If that works out and results are good pair it with a speaker thanks for sharing.

You may want to disconnect the power first before doing connections, that way you could avoid damaging components with wrong wiring.  Just a tip.

you never gave a parts list! I'm new to this and I'm here scratching my head!!!

Great,,,

I found a problem with your circuit. If we fed an audio signal with a DC offset, which is very likely to happen, our amp would clip out most of our wave and a lot of distortion would occur. You can add a .1uF cap series to the audio signal. Another thing is that you are using only one channel of the stereo plug. You can combine the two channels with two 1K resistors to create mono out of it. A summing amplifier and a differential amplifier could also be used in order to make an "analog or gate" or basically adding the signals on top of each other, that would be a neater solution. It would be nice to add a 10K pullup resistor before the cap in order to power electret microphones. The dc offset will be filtered by the cap.

Hey, cool video! Do you know anything about static noise in subwoofers? My laptops subwoofer makes static noise.. I've tried all drivers that I could find on Internet but No joy..

the voice in your video is very low.would be happy if you have good sound in ur next video.
amazing video

Can we just connect a semi-acoutic guitar to play ?

I want circuit diagrams

can you please do a tutorial on how to build the same thing except for having only one lm386 have like 4 and make it tutorial on how to build it or just plain out makeup tutorial on how to build these on more than just one

Can u plz provide me the circuit diagram of the second power amplifier in this video...

can you please tell me the Voltage Gain of this amplifier?

great demo. next time put the speaker in a small box. even an old tissue box. just place upside down and cut a hole slightly smaller than the speaker. then we could actually hear the quality differences.

Any chance you have a schematic for this circuit to assist in making the connections?

I need to make one with an IRLB8743 TO-220

Thank you for this!

các ban có thể tham khảo sản phẩm tại: https://www.sendo.vn/lm386-dip-combo-2-chiec-9073922.html

+Julio Reyes check out the wiring diagrams in the blog post, there's a link to it in the description

+Alo Leceta no problem :)

If I connect input from second circuit to el. guitar, would it work?!

nice video

Would I be able to hook up the bass potentiometer to another pre-amp circuit?

Awesome explanation and good use of the LM386 (related ot x86 architecture ? I'm a newbie !) However, use a better speaker, the distortion might be caused by that crappy little thing lol

Very nice project. i was very interested for it and finally i try it in breadboard. i use 0.5W & 8 ohm speaker, but sound is noise-able. Which speaker is best for this project ??
And i use normal 0.1m/f capacitor. is it the coz of Noise?

Also, if I wanted to add a toggle switch, where would it go?

Can you please tell me if i wanted to add multiple stages in the same circuit using BJT CB & CE configurations,how will i find my biasing measurements??

I always use LM386-4   --   The -4 will give up to a full 1 Watt.  A better speaker will make a HUGE difference!

hai aar I have two sound box perpared....but not basss how to bass plz tal me Sir....

nyceee  please upload its circuit diagram

Show muito bom

sir how to use those earphones in the circuit??

video was very wonderful..but i have list of apparatus used..so that i can easily tries to make it..i m very thankful if u send me list of thing used...

The breadboard is good but do you have PCB designs for this?

Hi. I just wanted to ask how would you connect LEDs to the IC so that they pulse to the beat of the music?

What is the signal coming out of the earphone jack? I know its a small signal but how small is it?

Is there any way i could get im 386 from some other components?

the way you wired it up in the video is different than you diagram on your website. which one is correct

Merci pour le tuto
Sauf que j'aimerai bien mettre un connecteur RCA femelle et un connecteur Jack femelle en même temps comme entrée.
Comment je dois souder les deux entrées et est ce que je dois mettre un ou plusieurs composants entre les deux connecteurs comme protection ?

i just made the very basic first version of this on a breadboard and plugged it into a 12"  speaker from a guitar amp, and played some guitar through it.  hot damn.  it sounds ridiculously good for the fact the amp costs substantially less than the 9V battery.  with the gain pins bridged it's LOUD too!   not sure about the impedance?  anyways, amazing, thanks for the tutorial.

dude google 
'ruby amp schematic" its an lm386 guitar amp design that has been around for years, and sounds great.

Nice, glad you like it!

it worked for the first one but then in the second circuit i heard only crackling noise and then it wont work even for the first circuit.

what is the frequency response, input/output impedance of the circuit

Good job

dose anyone to how to wire speaker in a electric guitar to a outputjack

hey. i have a project like this. i am a newbie at this topic. please enlighten me. what electronic configuration are you using?

Can i find a guide on the net, where are alle the parts used for?
What is in funtion of what, an what is compensates what.

nice

Very Good , in question on your Input leads  3.5 plug what is located inside ""Series"" with the leads seems to have a Resistor? thinking Grounds or loops from Computer and other units having voltage different that might be on the line to cause harm ? You did say on your Blog ? couldn't fine anything about it. Thanks for your Efforts 73's Dale

The 470pf capacitor indicated in your schematic on circuitbasics.com between pins 2 and 4 does nothing and is not needed. Since both pin 2 and pin 4 are tied to ground the capacitor is shorted

What if I want to add 1-2 more 8 ohm speakers?

Also, if I wanted to add a Bluetooth receiver, how and where would I solder it?

kindly tell mee the list of all the resistor and capacitor plz

While making the first circuit, he connected the last capacitor, that 104 I guess, from pin 4 to positive rail. I think that was a mistake, and he did plugged in to negative in the other part. Now I'm not sure how that worked for him.

can you give me some picture  of this circuit . . . a summary circuit i mean in a paper . .. coz it's so difficult for me to see the circuit in the breadboard . . .plssssss

Could you use this to drive a guitar cab?

Well. with that many you can experiment a whole lot, and practice creating a type A amp, type AB, and using two chips in the same setup as this video, (well similar not exactly. The gains, and Volume would need to be connected to both channels, otherwise you'll end up with 4 pots, or 6 if you add bass control.) You can make a stereo amp, as this amp is mono. I'm currently experimenting using these as a first, and second phase amp, using transistors (NPN, PNP, and MOSFETs) as either the preamp or 2nd stage amp.. both seem to work well tbh. I'm sure most real EE would balk at what im doing, but I'm a newb... bahaha. Electronics are really fun once you begin getting the hang of circuit design, and general knowledge of what specific chips/ics/etc do.

Can I get exact value of all capacitors as well as the resistors

Hello, can i connect dynamic microphone into the this audio amplifier and then amplify the microphone voice?

What is the difference between Volume and Gain?  I want to make an amp with a nob to increase distortion.

Can I use 0.1uF Ceramic capacitors instead of 0.1uF film capacitors since both should be non polarized?

is it possible to give a power more then 9v ? if yes then what is the limit? 
and how big loudspeaker it can support ?

A+

Do you have a schematic you can post?

Also, what is the resistance of the speakers themselves?

Where would you add a second speaker on the breadboard if you wanted it to be stereo?

Could u guide me to replicate this on a PCB!!!I tried but was unsuccessful...I'm a novice and doing this as a project

Is it possible to do two inputs for this amp?Thanks

does voltage matters ? lets say im powering the circuit from USB 5V or adapter 12V, will the circuit still work ?

I want to build an LED sound level indicator.  I want to use a microphone to detect sound.  I'm having a hard time finding anything that suits my needs.  This looks promising.
Question can I use NTE857M OP AMP, as a substitute for the LM386?

what effect does the impedance of the speaker has on the output?

can i please get a circuit diagram for this op amp

Can any one help me ... How to make intex home theater into amplifier to connectmy acoustic guitar...

How can I compute the capacitors and resistor ?

I want the bass bang my head

The best way to avoid burning your fingers when working with electronics is following the most basic safety rules. Especially the rule of keeping everything disconnected from power before checking correct connections. Manipulating the circuit itself with the power on is not allowed. It's the first thing they teach everybody in work safety, electric engineering high-school and also repeat it during safety tests.

I made a same one with two speakers. but the voice is not much as it is with other amplifiers.
I made it with 5k and 100 ohm potentiometers
and 220uF and 100uF. does it make a difference?
please reply ASAP
Thank you...

I am using the design you used for the best not the one with a base booster but the other any ways I use easy eda to make all my pcb boards and when i check it be for aranging parts on a pcb it red flags 3 on the audio jack and i dont know why

List of materials needed please thank you😊

if  want to build this for an old turntable and a couple large stereo speakers what changes o i have to make ?

nyc

where is the schematic for bass boost amp?

Lol, so many people use the far right pin of the potentiometer for ground, because they live in their schematics, where the ground usually points down. But in this connection the wiper must be turned far right for maximum attenuation, which is usually the position of maximum volume. That's why I design allready my schematics in a way that the potentiometer ground is pointing up.
It is better to use your best hifi speaker awayliable in your home to present the music samples. Most of these chip amps are really sounding good. Only with a very good speaker you can reproduce their full potential. I order to avoid accidential destruction of your speaker you can check that the amplifier output is free of dc.

Could someone PLEASE tell me how on some chips they have a mute and standby pin..how do you un mute this pin..to make it work..I just cant figure this out..I see some say 3.3 volts...but where and how do you do this?...thanks to all that help...

Hey, that a good amplifier. I want to build one, but i dintunderstand your circuit diagram. The 470pF capacitor should’ve been connected to pin 3 and ground “that want you did in the video”, but in disgram it’s connected to pin 2 and 3 so both side of the capacitor are grounded🤔🤔🤔

can this be used as substitute for AN6556

I want to build this but I want there to be absolutely no distortion and amazing sound, what must I do? Purchase higher quality speakers? Use different components? Input is appreciated!!!

It will be much better video if you added the schematics along the process

can I use this circuit for a 10W 4ohm speaker?

I have a doubt, what are the differences between an electrolytic capacitor an the green capacitor he put in the 5th pin? Does it have polarity? Can i replace it with an electrolytic capacitor?

Do you have a schematic diagram for the second circuit? That would be easier to read while making the circuit.

Hi,  I was wondering if it's okay to use a 4 ohm, 3 watts speaker and what capacitor to use for this circuit. Do I go with 1/4 watts or 1/2 ?? Wish you can help because I am just a newbie in this electronics stuff.  Thanks

Is it me or is the "audio" on this YouTube video about 3db down? The irony being that I made need to build this circuit to actually listen to this video on how to "build the circuit". Oh my.

👌👌

when i try to input the audio through phone trrs wire in the frist circuit, red ,blue ,green,gold. can you please tell me which wire ahould go in to potentiometer and which in ground..?

Is it possible to use a ne5534?

is it enough to drive a 3W 8ohm speaker?

it is great but you draw circuit on paper & show first to easily understand the connections.

@Sachin Chowdhury You can use the LM741 as a substitute for the LM386, but it won't have the same power output (or pin out). The LM741 is an op amp and the LM386 is a dedicated audio amp. It's the right tool for the job.

i   built one like this years ago but i think i used LM741  as preamp and the LM386 , i if i remember right

what is the power of the speaker to can get it

well said, the 741 is not in the same class!!!

why would you recommend that, bad idea.

 @snaprollinpitts  Its good pratice to try different chips to see what happens.

+Circuit Basics will there be a lot of power difference using the LM741?

ur circuit & ur 10k resistor do not match

Can i use an LM358?

358 is a amplificateur or a comparateur ??

El Mehdi Fdil I know it's very late but to answer your question a 358 is an operational amplifier, which can be used to either make a comparator circuit or an amplifier circuit. A comparator is just a configuration which uses an op amp to perform logical operations/switching.

LM741 (or uA741) will work, until you plug into speakers (8ohm) because it's only 20mA max output power. Resulting to a completely distorted signal.
LM386-1 is 250 mA max output power. About 12 times more.
So NO, you CAN NOT use the LM741, it is a piece of crap only used for class demonstrations...

Can it work only with 386 connected guitar directly to its input ?

👍❤️

please provide a circuit diagram

How much waatage of speaker we can connect with this circuit?

You should use a better speaker for the demo.

What if you want to use more than one speaker? Like if I want to use 2-3 8 ohm speakers? Also, are there speakers out there that have built in bass?

will this work with a 5 volt and 500mA source like usb ..

why was there a guitar amp in the thumbnail? Those are very different from just audio amps

Will this work on a bigger speaker ? 4 ohm ?

What kind of capacitors are it????? Besides the electrolitic ones

Sir i know this is unnecessary but can you please write all materials needed to make Audio Amplifier. thank you for your response

can u tell me what values should the speaker have?

i used a td2822 ic as amplifier... its sound is very distorted . pls suggest wat shd i do to make it sound better?.

ic LM358L CHALE GI KYA

It's wrk in a 5volt???

Sir will you help me in making 9 volt battery tester  using LM386

my woofer has noise.how can i get reed of it

Can you give the link to the audio file you have used?

can you give me design circuit LM386 audio amplifier with bass boost ..right now ? i need as soon as possible..thank you

Can I add more speakers and Bluetooth

6:39 You said 740 pF capacitor in the video, but your tutorial says 470 pF. You should add an annotation to the video correcting this.

If you knew anything about el. components at all, you would know that is 470 (uf, pf, nf ect) correct, because it's very common value among capacitors, he just said wrong, that's it

 @CarpeDiem23  You have a bunch of newbies or amateurs who won't know about "standard" values. 
Stating and listing something correctly saves others from getting frustrated, annoyed, or bothered.
I once received a grade of a "B" on a circuit in an EE lab.   It would have been an "A" had I not mislabeled a couple of values. Having said all of this, Circuit Basics did a good job of laying out a basic LM386 audio amp circuit!  Thumbs up and a grade of a B from me.  ;)

The circuit on website is different from that in video
There is no capacitor on pin 3 in circuit on website 
Moreover there is no capacitor between pin 2 and pin 4 in video but it is in the circuit diagram on site

can you please leave a circuit diagram.

instead of a potentiometer I choose a 10k resistor for the bass to get the full effect, now all I get is awful distortion

how can you demonstrate "bass boost" using a speaker like that?

can this be used as a guitar amp

what should i do if i wanto use u s b prt as power supply

could someone help me

what type of potentiometers are you using? a , b, cts? i just wired up everything using 10k a pots "log", and for the bass pot i used a 10k b pot linear and i just get squealing

I have made it. But why is this making too much sound noise? Should I use new capacitor or change the wires?

How can we make this in stereo ?  Just make two ?

I built the circuit with a LM386-1. I then swapped it for the LM386-4. No difference in volume/gain. Tried both chips at 5v,9v,12v and the  LM386-4 at 18v. No difference in volume gain.
Any suggestions on why and how to fix? I used 4 and 8 ohm speakers. I have a guitar pedal prototyping unit that supplies the various voltages so I can quickly test all.

Can this be used to connect a computer

can you pls send me the materials needed...

At 14:50 you could probably connect a better speaker to help with the crappy sound.

Gain Pot should be logarithmic and the other one shoud be Linear.

Give projects parts detail.......

what if i want to add more than one speaker in series or parallel is this amp will work ?

Man what did you did in this video is not the same on the circuit diagram, what should i follow :(

Hi! I gave this a go with some slight modifications. 

I didn’t have a 10k variable so used a normal resistor between pin 3 and audio in.

I used a 100uf electrolytic capacitor from pin 6 to ground 
A 10 ohm resistor from pin 5
A .5uf ceramic capacitor from end of the 10ohm resistor to vcc
And a 1000uf electrolytic capacitor in between. 

Speaker +ve input connected to negative leg of the 1000uf capacitor.

Anyway when I power it on and hook it up to my 9v batter the volume is really quiet. However when I touch the 100uf capacitor and the ground input the sound amplifies.

Can anyone explain what is going on please ?

you crazy

I believe what you need is a resistor between ground and the input pin (10k should suffice). Without it, the circuit is "floating", aka it's not properly biased, and will not work correctly.

can i use a 3W speakers in it ??

Amazing. I wish I could learn to do things like this, I would love to make a 5.1 surround sound kit,
Specially with these or smaller speakers, but I suppose my idea will just have to remain as a idea

do it better with TDA2822, 500mw x channel with 3.5v 1A up to 9v

Will it sound good with guitar?

Can i use only ceramic and electrolytic Capacitors?

Nice tutorial!
Does it matter if the 0.1 uF caps are ceramic disc or Polyester? I see you have used both types.

How loud can this go?

If you want to make a bass booster then better use the C4558 opamp and two transistors (ask me for schematic).
Also, if you try to make an LM386 amplifier and it is unstable ask me for a very stable version!
I know the LM386 as well as i know my pocket!

mobile sound give loud sound as compare to your speaker...    hahaha

Can i powered it on 12V?

What's this song "city" ?

Can this be used for an electric guitar or a bass guitar?

A schematic or even a pictorial diagram at the beginning or end of the video would have been extremely helpful. Also, an iPhone is a very expensive signal generator to send up in smoke when you make an error.

hai sar.  I have two sound box perpared....but not basss how to bass plz tal me Sir....

nice

Also, if I wanted to add a Bluetooth receiver, how and where would I solder it?

what is the voltage of the capacitors?

Can I use AP8022 ic

Will it work as a Fuzz Pedal?

hai sar.  I have two sound box perpared....but not basss how to bass plz tal me Sir....

cool , please guide me also if u have succeded, coz am starting now

Ceramic

it is on his page in the description. but it doesn't look accurate compared to video.

nice video, welcome to my channel

witch lm  700mw or 250mw

"great sounding"...

Would it be a good idea to use this on headphone as your speaker?

I am listening to this video with B&W monitor speakers and it sound very tinny. Pretty much what you would exptect when the original is played through what looks like a baked bean tin lid. If you want to demonstrate the quality of your amp, play it through decent 'speakes please.

LOL  Amazing.  A video about audio amplifiers because people want to hear.  I had to read every word because the volume is too low.
Thing is I hear a lot of videos real good.  I have that too loe audio problem with a lot of videos.  
Those who reply to similar comments are willing to tell me, :"Well I adjusted my settings to industry standards."  
Maybe all those videos with the volume too low did the same thing and the people who made videos I can hear with no problem didn't use those industry standards.  
But I'm the one who is wrong.  Oh well.  🤣

yea

Is it 50k potentiometer?

great and simple build but this can sound even better with a little better and bigger speaker. I made a GREAT guitar practice amp with LM386 and small bass boost. Super easy and great sounding. Is there a schematic for this build? I'd love to compare.

hey!.pls mention the wattage nd impedance of the speaker ur using...

PLEASE EXPLAIN Componet this experiment

What is the cost of this circuit

requirements???

Great project! I was keen to know whether you used a 8 Ohm speaker or some different.

why dont you draw the circuit on a sheet of paper

Can we use LM741

Can you do an active Filter that lets only Bass come through?

Even when doing easy experiments as a starter, please use a better speaker that has some enclosure with at least a woofer and twitter to get rid of distortion! Also get a 12V 7Ah lead-acid battery which i really recommend for starters, as well as a multifunctional charger for almost all batteries! It will be much better than the 9V 200mA alkaline battery!

Diagram?

So this w
ould be a good preamp? But the use of a tweeter, why is that? Don't hear much difference really

You definitely can. Just switch out the speaker for a female audio jack...

Try turning up the volume... Just a thought :)

 @Circuitbasics  OR "to" Circuitbasics  Just a thought,  maybe you read only my first sentence.  :)  
At the risk of repeating what will be ignored    again    I hear a LOT of videos really well.  
Oh, my volume for your video was at maximum because I wanted the information.  
And some of those other videos I mentioned  - -  I have to turn my volume down or they're too loud for comfort.  
Brother, I'm not  trolling.  Just making a report I hoped would be helpful.

***** I'm trying so hard to find how to make a guitar amp, could you show yours? or how you did it?

Jeyson Ardila I tracked down information about the "Ruby" amp using the LM386. I used this webpage and adapted the "Bassman" mod....so my amp is a RUBY BASSMAN. You can google it or go to this page which was my main source of information.


http://runoffgroove.com/ruby.html



Hope that helps! :D

Hi! The LM386 amplifier comes in 3 power ratings: 325mW, 700mW and 1W. The impedence can be chosen according to your supply voltage, but the most common is 8 ohms. I don't reccommend using speakers below 2 ohm impedence, because it will draw a lot of current.

I made a diagram that includes all of the components used in this project. It's in the article on the Circuit Basics website at http://www.circuitbasics.com/

Yes this is an 8 Ohm speaker

Circuit Basics

+Sachin Choudhury ___The LM741 has insufficient output current to drive most loudspeakers.

+Elnufo You should do a little research about sallen key filters, those are active filters for amplifiers. Not sure it will work with LM386 but give it a try on a breadboard.

mAh sorry

What voltage rating did you use on you capacitors? Couldn’t find that on the blog. Tried posting a comment but went to blank screen. Thanks. Would really like to see a parts list.

Turbo bass?

How do you control the electricity suminister when you're not using

why you don't use a good speaker for listen a difference?

My lm386 melted part of my breadboard at 5v 1a

Do you have a schematic diagram of this circuit  i want to make this one

how do you make something like this work with an mp3 and arduino?

FYI, you had the volume control wired BACKWARDS. the volume SHOULD go up as you turn the potentiometer to the RIGHT, NOT THE LEFT.

I'm just a begginer may i know what the voltage of the capacitor, because everytime i buy a capacitor they always asking what is the voltage, and also for the resistor, thank you

At the video, you connected the 470pf decoupling capacitor between pin 3 and ground but at the schematic at your blog, is between pin 2 and pin 4(ground). Which one is right?

Hi, i've searched high and low for something like this, but i want to know if the audio input would work for a microphone?

Hello, which is the max input voltage and that is the power of this amplifier, Greetings, Vedran Lazic

Lol a video with really low audio levels about building an audio amplifier

OK so I'm confused the more capacitors you you have the lens distortion their is or the more capacitors you have the more distortion you have?

hello,,   what it i use 12 volts for power supply,,? is there any problem with that, or there is material or part that need to replace,, waiting for your response,, thank

can I change the speaker with an audio jack and plug in 9v speaker?

2 questions..... 1. Can I use 100k potentiometer??? and 2. what is the alternative for 0.1 capacitor( cuz I cannot find them on the site I usually buy components from)

squeme pleasy

why does connecting the wire between pin 1 and pin 8 make the volume boost. at 4:18

please please can someone help me to build a car amplifier..the cost is no issue..i want 4 amplifier for ech door...front door 3 way bas mid and treble,,rear seat is bas and treble and last for a subwoofer..i have a couple of amps that isnt working..3 genessis  and 1 Hifonocs zeus v.. all of them is early 1990-2000 im a noob and dont have schematicks on these so i was thinking of making 5 amps

Oh I found the parts list

I just disconnect the battery, but you could add a toggle switch on the 9V line to turn it on and off

+810max sorry, that's all I had on hand... It does sound much better with headphones and better speakers though

it is also a nice way to make a new video and compare the works with a different speaker - or - make a video with a few speakers and compare those -

If I'm not wrong, lm386 has a max 0.5a or probably 0.75a on certain chip.. lol

+Danish Legacy Unfortunately I don't, the only diagram I have is the fritzing diagram posted on the blog

you can use the TMRpcm library which works with the Arduino Uno, Nano etc.
But you can only play wav files at 16khz, 8 bit so the sound quality isn't great.
you can also use the arduino Due which has a DAC so the sound quality is better becaus it can play a wav file of 16 bit 44100hz.

+brian h. Right. Thanks for bringing that up. If you want to switch the direction of knob turns you just have to switch the polarity of the outer pin of the potentiometer

That just depends on your circuit. If your circuit has a max voltage of 19V you should get a capacitor rated higher than that such as 25V.

Pin 3 is correct. The capacitor is intended to short radio frequencies immisions from the non-inverting input to ground. But in the video is another more relevant error. The positive electrode of the output capacitor (1000 µF) is not connected to pin 5 (output) of the LM386 but to the midpoint of the Zobel circuit. So the speaker will only get less than half of the voltage and less than a quarter of the power.
 
And the Zobel circuit is connected with the resistor to the output of the LM386 and with the capacitor to the ground (the opposite as in the tutorial). It doesn't matter the way it is but if it would have been built in the way like in the tutorial, the educator would have realized that the output capacitor is at the wrong net, because only the very high frequencies would have been audible. :D

+Ricardo Rodriguez yes the audio input will work for any audio signal

its less bro, capacitors acts as filters

Yes, you can use 12V... The LM386 is rated at 4V to 12V.

Yeah you can... Just switch the pos and neg outputs for the speaker with the pos and neg terminals for the output jack

104 ceramic capacitor

When you connect pins 1 and 8, you bypass the internal circuitry that sets the gain of the amplifier to 20. Instead it sets the gain to 200. (X10 louder than the latter configuration).

08halit I had a similar problem and I found a guy on Craigslist that charges 20$ to diagnose an amp and will apply that to repair if done by him. I had 4 amps fixed and working for 80$ which was a great deal less then building my own or retail replacements of similar quality. Thats something to maybe look into. If you don't care about how much it costs I'd say buy new ones. If it's a hobby you're looking into starting, hiring the repair guy and have him teach you as he fixes them is the best way to learn because you can ask questions.

How about some schematics.

where will these circuit diagram will be available

Circuit Basics   I have a smaller signal going in to the input on my amplifier than you do, how would I get it louder in that case?

do you have a .pcb file....if so pls share

service

Kiya hum tda 2030 ic waly 2.1 circuit me 4558 ki jaga lm358 laga dain to bass achi ho gi kiya

THANKS for this information, good details, the video AND putting up with all the ingrates and socially awkward selfish people who commented on this before me. Humanity's spokesperson should stop by and apologize for all the shit taking, arrogant entitlement in this thread. I hope they find a cure for IAHS (Internet Ass Hat Syndrome) and make a blue pill equivalent for it sometime soon....

I thought you would need a transformer to convert to ac?

sound is not so clear... it is full of base... Can't understand what you are saying.

The d coupling capacitor is 470 or 740 ?

leave the bad audio out...can barely hear what you're saying having been maxed out on the video volume.

Played a guitar through it and it's a bit quiet. Not sure what I've done wrong

Anyone knows what do you call that board? Its not pcb...

Is the volume distortion in the video from the circuit or the speaker?

One more thing guys: Isn't it true that the higher the resistance (speaker) the lower the sound? If you were to use 4 ohm speakers, would this circuit still work but with higher sound?

You can just connect the speaker with your Iphone, it should sounds better.

which ic is used

i dont have a 740 picofarad capacitor, can i use 2x 0.1 microfarad?

I assembled one circuit(LM386) successfully but your circuit ideas concerning LM386 showed how to improve on it.Thanks a lot.

No speaker baffle=no bass!!.

I don't have a schematic available, but there is a Fritzing diagram for this circuit in the article I wrote for this video. The link is in the description

+Owen Chase science channel you need preamp

+rawux1228 thanks

Unfortunately I don't have a pcb file on hand, but send me a message and I can send you the Fritzing file...

Nahi uska gain kum hai shayad

Kya 386 mein directly guitar bajega ya koi resistance series me lagana hoga ?

+richieb74 Technically the audio signal coming out of the LM386 already is AC so it doesn't strictly need a transformer.  Where those are normally used in output stage is in Tube amps.  Since these circuits run on DC either use an external wall adaptor (transfomers in there) or a battery (no transformer needed).

+Ratiya mehul the decoupling capacitor is 470 pF

Might need a pre amp?

Can increasing input impedance of 386 by connecting 470 k resistor work ?

Tnx sir..

It's a breadboard

+4998826p it's mostly from the speaker. I hooked up some headphones to it afterwards and there was very little distortion

as i know its a speaker from the pc bleeper , right?

There is a danger of zapping the chip if you go from an 8-ohm to 4-ohm speaker.

true, using a higher impedance than advised for an amplifier will only give less dB per Watt but using a lower impedance speaker than adviced will put too little charge on the amp circuit and you may fry it

Its probably sounds terrible due to its s standard crap 8 ohm speaker

lm386n-4

use 470pf

or we can buy a cheap Bluetooth speaker

07:00 What's the difference between the volume control and gain control?
08:10 What's the value of that capacitor?
OK cool, you showed how to connect all these parts, but you didn't explain what is the purpose of each of these parts and how does the circuit works.

This circuit doesn't work. The first one amplifies sound a bit, but audio quality is insanely annoying. The second one works even worse. I'm using all the same components except for those green capacitors, what are they? Electrolytic, ceramic? Their capacitance is the same as the yellow one that you use for decoupling, yet they look very different. Help please :/

what is "200" gain?  Wattage I guess.. wait no... I don't know..

And why is there distortion?  because the speaker?  or the setup?

mani

what volts does your capacitors has?? please do reply to my comment, badly needed

can u powered it by transformer?? 9v 150mAh

Pots are logarithmic, right?

Without a proper schematic, I found this video hard to follow. It just looks a bunch of wires. Also, the I believe the speaker is way too small to demonstrate amplifier circuit working.

"great sounding"  "bass boost" that speaker

bad sound.

don't take much time to built it

What voltage ratings are your Cap's?...

I have 2 , 6 inch speakers and I don't know the  rating I mean how many watts and ohms are they..
Is there any way to know that...please help me brother


How can I assemble 2 , 6 inch speaker and 1 30watt 4ohm subwoofer to make a good sound...please.. Please..please help me..

Great sound from a 386?  is this a joke?  Check the noise, distortion, and slew rate!!

Schematic diagrams are the language of electronic circuits.  Breadboard analysis alone teaches nothing

Good job at explaining basically nothing. Is this supposed to be a tutorial or an educational video?

BAD AUDIO.

you say 740pf capacitor around 7:00....so i sent my wife to the shack to get...no luck....wire diagram shows 470pf....which is correct? I would assume 470pf....but that burns me alot....lol

instead of us watching you place components, you could show us the schematic, and then show us the completed circuit on the bread board.  less time wasted.   the music quality was difficult to hear due to the small speaker.

Generally speaking in audio applications, gain is a multiplier for amps (opamps etc) and can be controlled using the negative feedback of the amp. For example if I had a 3v sine wave peak to peak on the input of the amp and have a gain of 2, then my final signal will be 6v peak to peak. 

Volume is a final "fine tuning" of the loudness. It's simply a voltage divider at the end of a signal usually controlled by a potentiometer. 

A (very basic) example of them being used together would be in a basic distortion circuit for a guitar. Guitar signal is fed to the op amp which has a gain higher than what the amp can produce. The result is distortion; however, your signal becomes really loud to create this distortion. So you add a volume control at the end of the of the circuit to tame the loud signal

The circuit does work, but as I mentioned in the video, there may be some noise due to loose connections from using a breadboard. It would also help to use wires as short as possible to prevent electromagnetic interference. Also try to make sure the wires are as close as possible to the LM386. And using capacitors with smaller tolerance should help as well. Keep in mind that this is not a HiFi Amp, but it does sound good. For the best audio quality i'd look into building a tube amp

The green capacitors are polyester film capacitors

+Circuit Basics You're right, the circuit started working after I replaced a dodgy speaker,  tho I still can't describe it as good sounding. It's decent at low/medium sound level and only when playing calm music, trying to play rock or metal at higher volume produces just intolerable noise. It also starts quietly playing radio on top of input signal as a bonus :D I'm having these problems with all LM386 based amplifiers, so I started building one based on NE5534 by GreatScott, we'll see how it goes

The distortion is actually 99% from the speaker. I listened to it with headphones later and it sounded much clearer.

Gain is just the multiplier of the amplifier. Headphone ports don't carry enough voltage to power a big speaker. So the amplifier multiplies the input wave (aux signal) by 200 to make it more powerful

Cielo Herradura as best practice use a voltage rating double your supply voltage or more - if you are using 12V power supply then 25V capacitors would be a good choice

 @jonahswain  how about 9v? 25 volts is still good?

Yes that would work, I'm using a 9v battery

+Circuit Basics but I don't know how to wired it up b`coz the transformer has no polarities.. can u give me a example how to wired it up..

+gener mangosong then you have to put a capacitor in parallel with the charger.

Thanks. That makes more sense to me. I use log pots on my tube amps. 

+redfishbum I think they are linear actuallu

Ok. I build tube guitar amps and use logarithmic there. This is my first attempt at a solid state set up. 

Thanks for the quick response. 

Volume pots follow the log law as our hearing is logarithmic too. You can of course use a linear pot, but it would make everything happen in the first little turn. Lin pots for most everything else.

Luca Della Bonzana 555

What's your point? I enjoy fitness, buff men, and the violin :). I probably exercise and workout more in one day then you have in the last 4 years :D

+Mike Wallace it's 470pf, sorry... But actually a range of values will work for that capacitor. You want a small capacitance to filter out high frequency interference, but the exact value isn't critical

What range are those frequencies? I am asking because I want to build an Analog Flanger. It's a stomp box type of effect in case you were not aware. Examples are the MRX Flanger used by Van Halen and the ADA Flanger. Would you be interesting in making a video of this kind of music processor? Thank you...

+Circuit Basics thank you

Are you referring to that gelatinous mass In your display picture? Looks like the only thing that creature maintains is the Hungry Man dinner supply in your deep freezer.

better buy pam8403, more wats, better sound, stereo, and its very cheap (0.40€+-)

Speaker have positive or negative? ? 😂

Sounds  terrible

+Ji run its 5v 1.2a 3w amp, I tested it on 20w 4ohm speaker, sound was great

