FCheck out our sponsor Altium and get a free trial of their PCB design software: https://www.altium.com/yt/programming...

The YOUTUBE Algorithim Sucks, they shoulda put this 1st for WHO EVER wants to learn arduino PS. I also looked and other courses

Great

I am trying my hands at arduinos and this was such a great video!!!

I`am 16 year old and the one thing i want to say is your video was fantastic and plz can you get the other helpful video of arduino🙏🙏🙏🙏

İt's 01:31am i want to go to sleep man 😭 stop using your dark magic to make me watch your videos i have school tomorrow

Yes I enjoyed this, my goal is to the people creative again, a Lego computer but I trying to get your board for some reason might learn how to use it lol I really enjoyed the video thank you

You are a very good instructor, entertaining and precise and exciting. Thanks fro inm a 70 odd year old electronic engineer from Manchester. Designed safety computers for railways 8 bit stuff

Excellent video, great teaching. Thank you.

This is one of the best channels of science I have ever seen. Congratulations. Keep up the good work.  Much love from Africa - Mozambique. ❤

I’m 12 minutes in and feel compelled to note what a great teacher you are. Engaging.  Informative.  Not too fast.  Not too slow.  Thank you for this.

tank you

Best Arduino Class I have ever watched

34:51

Can Anyone Tell ME the Cheap Arduino Shop

"How to ride a tricycle in 90 min..."

Thank you for this great video!

awesome class! explained pretty much all, even simple programming things!

Nice introduction

Let's goo

Will do!

There is one odd thing in the beginning of this video; when you wrote "code 1", "code 2" you really should have called them "instructions" - Otherwise this is very good tutorial, I'll recommend it to some of my friends who don't know how to get started with this sort of thing.

@indiedy_ghaze0968  4

Ooh nice

Awesome. Thank you

Great 😉👏👏👏

Will always do oh sorry for reading your reply too late 😓🙁😕☹

Super i always wanted to do this😄

​ @indiedy_ghaze0968 😮😮😮😅😮😅😮😮😮😮😅 9:16

​DS🎉D🎉

Arduino UNO R4 Wi-Fi is recommended now?

Great question  @CookiePepper  !  Either are reasonable options.  If your goal is to learn how to program microcontrollors with logic for controlling I/O, then either will serve you well.

Thank you!

Glad it was helpful!  Thanks so much for watching and best of luck!

Thanks!

Ha!  Sheep jumping over fences...

Thanks so much for watching!

Thanks so much!

Thanks!

Thanks!

Thank you so much for that kind note!

That made my day!  Thanks for this, and I'll pass it on to our other team members who helped make this video.

Thanks a ton for watching!

Great to hear!  Thanks you so much for the kind note!

Glad you liked it!  Thanks for the note!

Arduino for dummies.  Handheld instruction.  Makes the class interesting, easy to learn.  Superb teacher!!  thank you

Brilliant 👍👍

Why you signing the agreements about ur kids???

Thank you so much for this. So informative and well presented.

Excellent

23:00 : "Here's some stuff about selling your first kid" Cat meows in background :D It happens again later!  Well played!

J Perico: Keep at it. As my late father used to say: Rome wasn't built in a day! Mike in Germany.

Bro it is already easy for me beacuse i have learned c++

Can i power my adrino with a 9v battery Or should i only use 5v ?

Just amazing tutorial. Thanks!

"Open Horse"

I just used this video to use an arduino on tinkercad

My brain was over heating and fried by 45 minutes.  I'm going for refund on my starter kit.  Life is too short 😕

Thank you so much, you explain so well !

I was very impressed with your explanation and became very interested in writing codes for urduino projects. As a teacher, I wish to learn more so that I can help students do better in their projects. Thank you for sharing.

Amazing video. thanks I'm impressed

Excellent video!

Huge thank you for making this tutorial video. I've been on the hunt for information in building my latest cosplay gadgets and this video has been the most helpful out of anything I've found.

10:10 what's up with the open horse? Loll

Sure would  be nice to  find that reference page & control structures.  Ya lost me at 50m. Searching 🔍    nothing.!

So glad it was helpful!  Thank you for the kind note!

Thank you!!!

Glad you enjoyed it!  And thanks so much for the kind note!

Thank you so much 😀

Glad you liked it!  Our editor has a sense of humor with the noises.

Glad you liked it!  Thanks so much for watching and best of luck on your Arduino projects!

source

@FurganManafov  he said horse

Great!

I hear you! Maybe use a fan to cool down your brain :)  I know it can be a lot to start with, but once you get into coding, it really is a lot of fun.  I am no genius by any stretch, but I have managed to get stuff working.  There might be some other resources out there too that could help introduce the ideas that might fit better your learning style better.  In any case, all the best and thanks for watching!

@programmingelectronics  It's certainly not your introduction that's the problem - it was excellent. The issue is with me. I just can't grasp this type thing. You have however inspired me to change my mind and have a go. I brought a starter pack with everything included - board, components etc.  Thank you for the video, and in particular your response. Take care.

@cutlerlon8468  Best of luck!!!!!

Great to hear!  best of luck with helping your students!

Thanks!!

Great to hear it helped!  Best of luck!

Not sure what you mean?  Is there something to that horse animation that I am not following?

@programmingelectronics   The caption  changes to open horse for a couple of  seconds then back to open source.🤣 I can't be the first to notice lol

@alfonzo6320  Mystery solved!  Tons of folks have left comments about open horse, and I had no idea what they were talking it.  That's a great easter egg.

Here is the reference page: https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/  Best of luck.

What is your windows? i have Chromebox and couldn't get to work. Maybe Chromebook to old.IDK so bought new laptop. well apparently, it has windows 11 S mode and will allow me to download the program but not the editor program. apparently not a Microsoft approved program or APP. I'm so lost as this point. any help besides buy a 3rd computer would be appreciated.

VERY HELPFUL

Open Horse

This video is a masterclass in creating instructional videos!

Thank you for this course. Excellently presented and clearly spoken. A blessing for participants who do not have English as their native language. (Also for people like me, with a 79 year old brain...!)

Wonderfully explained sir appreciate it.... Do you have a video that explains all the arduino function in detail?

56:27

how many servo motors can an arduino uno (made in china) handle at a time?

Thank you

56:17 / 1:25:30

I am missing some words about the network preferences how in all the amount of similar videos about Arduino on YouTube and the rest of the web

What a fantastic tutorial. This is the type of video that explains it to you like you're 5 and interested in tinkering.

Is everyone on here over 70?

You do a good job of explaining.  I think this allot like Basic programming back in the 80s that I got after going  to school after the Army.  Worked in industry for OEMs after that on CNC and PLC equipment.  Your training brings back memories.

Pls help me. In my arduino UNO board, the pin 2 keeps on giving electricity. Idk whether it is normal or not. pls help me

lcan i set foreground and background colors? grey on white is NOT VISIBLE TO ME.

I learnt microprocesors back in the 90s, using 8085's. No such thing as an ecosystem; had to breadboard everything.....Great vid. About to embark on teaching my son the Arduino.

I am visually impaired and use a high contrast yellow on black theme. Watching you download the IDE I see that I won't be able to see the IDE as it's grey on white (totally invisible to me).  I couldn't even change its colors because that presupposes that I can see the IDE. So maybe if I use the browser emulator?

Excellent Arduino introduction! One thing that made me chuckle... never in my life have I heard anyone pronounce "put" as "putt".  I thought it was a mistake at first, but he did it many times thoughout the video. 😂

😮😮😮 You are Great Teacher! Respect!🙏

I use windows 11 and haves both Arduino IDE 1 and 2 installed.  I did not download them from the microsoft app store however, instead, I go directly to the arduino website and download the programs.  As for chromebooks, I believe the only option there is to use the Arduino Web Editor, which allows you to program and upload programs to an arduino board using a web browser.    The Web editor and the Arduino IDE both work well., and look and feel very similiar.  I hope this helps!  Sometimes the toughest part is getting things set up, before you get rolling.

Glad it helped!

Thank you!  I hope you found it useful.

Thanks!

Thanks so much for the note and for watching - best of luck in your Arduino endeavors Paul!

I believe you are referring to the IDE colors?  If you use Arduino IDE 2.x you can adjust the Theme colors to 4 different setting, 2 of which are high contrast.  On a PC it would be under File > Preferences, on a OSx it would be under Arduino IDE > Settings

Awesome!  Have fun!

Hi Steven, not sure this will help but...  If you use Arduino IDE 2.x you can adjust the Theme colors to 4 different setting, 2 of which are high contrast.  On a PC it would be under File > Preferences, on a OSx it would be under Arduino IDE > Settings

:) I am not sure where I picked that up, but as much as I try to stop it, I keep saying putt  - ha!  Thanks for watching!

@programmingelectronics  no worries, it was a nice giggle-break for the heavy knowledge dump that was this video.  Thanks again for sharing with us!

Thank you! 😃

Just completed this video, gotta say its gold. 10/10 ❤

Thanks!

The video is very helpfull💯💯. How can I contact you? I need your assistance with my project🙏

I'm just a beginner and this video really helped me in both hardware and software Thank you so much for this video❤

anyone hear the cat in the background? haha!

The best coding video I've ever watched, Vielen Dank!

something about selling your kid hahaha  23:01

You owe me 5 minutes! LOL

Amazing;now I know where to go to learn programming. Thanks

int taserBlast; taserBlast = 8; does not work anymore. Has to be in 1 go outside a functionblock, like the globalscope.

Thanks however was a litle fast paced for a person of hearing loss as I rely on reading the checking part being spoken about. I guess you cant serve everyone at once. Good job either way

"Something about selling your first kid" MEEEOOOOOOOOWWWWWWWWWWWWWW  Very helpful video dude. Thank you! EDIT: I realize it was a kid but I heard a meow lol.

cool video)

Sir, can you please tell me how to execute the project called "Smart indicator for cyclists".Here neo pixels are used and it helps the cyclists during night where they can indicate their directions using remote.. Please tell me the code to execute this project, it will be a great help from your end..

Thanks for the really helpful information, it was very helpful. I want to use the ARDUINO to make my satellite dish track the moon's trajectory  and give me an AZ-EL digital reading while visually tracking the moon's rise to set. At 86 yrs it'll give me something to do:). Never stop learning. Thanks for NOT having any music playing in the back round.

@programing electronics. I must know. Why is there a Sylvan library for a frame at 47:21

How cool will it be to run the IDE on Rasberry Pi 😎...

W tutorial 🙌

11:25

Is there any debugging available? And how to use that?

Thanks so much!

Thank you for your generosity Darren!

Glad it was helpful!  Best of luck in your adventures!

Our video editor has a sense of humor :)

Thanks!  I hope it was useful for you.

in  the mail :)

Glad it was helpful!

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks!

Yes!  We did a series on that here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYutciIGBqC1ePf5brSWrxE5bpPgdc1Hj

First of all thank you for this amazing video. It helpt me so hard.   I also had a question: you have a servo Library. the code says "Servo myservo". You say that "myservo" is the name you choose, but I don't understand the "Servo" part yet. Is that part of the code defined in the servo's library, if so where can I find it? that's just like the "myservo.write(val)" part. Could you please help me further with this?  1:19:55

I'm not quite 100 yo (69) & really appreciate the help getting started on the ARDUINO UNO R3 coding. I've failed at a lot of things (not that big of a deal now), including picking up C/C++ easily, but here, now, with all of the resources and tools available it should be a little easier to be successful... well done, thanks for sharing (everyone)

"something about selling your irst kid" hahahaha

Thank you for creating this content! Brand new to Arduino/coding etc, and looking to make use of Nanos/LEDS for sci-fi s mode projects : ))

please can you create a video showing how to build the robot from scratch with the required parts and then how to program it

Liked, subbed and saved

Excellent stuff 👍👍

Very hard to read the code.   It is blurry most of the time.  Some of the time it is clear.

Im a total idiot when it comes to this stuff....but this video made it exponentially easier to understand and how it all works

Excellent 👍

Can you get circuit diagram for the codes

i am electrical engineering student and  it is  a thing that i want to learn and not taught by college

❤

30:00, 2nd comment about selling your children, your cat disagreed 😂

This is amazing. All my life i have wanted to learn electronics. This is so simple. Who knew? You did, thanks for all you have taught me now and long into the future.

thanks a lot for this video. Very useful

57:00

35:00

Awesome tutorial, thank you so much

Very useful and beginner friendly, thanks a lot!

Great questions!  The Servo part is from the library.  The libraries author determined the name.  If you want to look at the code for the servo library, in IDE 2, just right click on the name servo.h and click "go to definition" and it will take you to the code in Servo library source file. Make sure you have an Arduino board selected or this will not work.  There are 2 files that you'll want to explore, the servo.h and the servo.cpp   The .h file will have the function signatures (like the name of the different functions), and the .cpp file will have the actual function code.  Hope this helps some!

@programmingelectronics   thank you so much. I was really struggling with that.

Best of luck !  @HoiAuto99

Best of luck!!

@programmingelectronics  gracias, I'm starting to imagine all kinds of things I might be able to do with my time if I catch on. enjoy

Glad you like the humor :)

Thanks so much for watching!

Thanks so much!

Thank you!

So glad it was helpful - many thanks for watching!!

Thank you!!

Glad it is helped!

Best of luck in your Arduino endeavors!

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks so much for watching!

Great to hear - best of luck in your Arduino endeavors!

Excellent and very well explained. Thanks, guys !!!

Why do you say selling your kiddos lol

23:01 seems like someone got visited by a witcher recently

Geat tutorial

Hi, really loved your video, but i wanted to ask you what you think about the new Arudino Uno R4 wifi. I know it has some very cool features, that it's compatible whith the old accesories, and it's pretty much the same. As a beginner do you think i could buy it?

Thanks man

Great, great, great!

Hi am super excited watching this video .. Anticipating for more videos

Thank you very much. ❤❤❤ THANKS GOD AND THE VIRGIN MARY AND SAINT JOSEPH. ❤❤❤❤❤ Happy thanksgiving to Programming Electronics Academy and your family and Everyone. ❤ 25.11.2023 ❤ 6h20 ❤ 14.12.2023

This is the most informative guide ever.  I am always curious about wanting to learn these kind of things, but just not sure where to find it until I saw your video here on YouTube.   Thank You very much for this awesome tutorial.

Awesome, I finally have somewhat of the basics. Your format is excellent not assuming anything and skipping over material that is not centered on the subject at hand. If you want to get into flying for any reason, I’d be honored to teach you how I teach my student flight instructors. You would take it so much further I would want to become your student.

🥰🥰🥰🥰🥰🥰🥰WOW!!! LOVE IT!! 🤗🤗🤗🤗I UNDERTSOOD THIS PROGGRAMMING LANGUAGE IN JUST 1. 5 HOURSS!!😍😍 I AM GONNA TELL YOU YYOU ARE SUCH A GOOD EXPLAINERRR JUSTTT  REALLY GOOD I AM SPEACHLESS!!☺☺☺☺ NOW I CAN UNDERSTAND MY ROBOTICS CLASSES 100 TIMES WELL AND AGAIN THANKS...❣❣❣❣😋😋BYE!!!

Videos like this help me alot. I really need the knowledge about hardware and code.

A little "bugfix":  I would change that if part of the code (line 19-21) for the following:  if (brightness < 0 ||  brightness>255) {     fadeAmount = -fadeAmount     brightness = brightness + 2 * fadeAmount; }  Why? Because you should really turn the negate the fadeAmount only when the brightness is out of range,  and should not change when it is 0 or 255.  for example if you set fadeAmount to 50 your would try use values  0 50 100 150 200 250 300 250 200 150 100 ...etc,  maybe your eye wouldn't notice the '300' if the delay is 30ms,   but my code when it notices 300 it would swap fadeAmount to -50  and would add 2x-50 to 300 so would go back to 200 that way it would go  0 50 100 150 200 250 200 150 ... correctly  Same on the negative end, imagine you start with 10 and fadeAmount 50, original code  would go like: ...10 60 110 160 210 260 210 160 110 60 10 -40 10 60 ...  my code would go correctly  10 60 110 160 210 160 110 60 10 60 ...

The cat chimed in everytime you did an EULA. 😂

Did somebody noticed the subscribe button at 0:44

The option "Port" couldn´t be opened by me, just can´t click it, anyone knows? I have my arduino plugged to my pc

Is the trap lord randomly appearing bottom right corner?

Wow, thanks brilliant

for Arduino programming of Arduino Uno : do I need of voltage supply for the board Arduino ? OR IT IS ENOUGH  THE USB CONNECTION FOR PROGRAMING?

Thanks for watching!

Thanks!

Yes, for sure!  I think the R4 would be fine to start with.

Thanks for watching!

Thank you!

Thank you!

Am a university graduate with degree in physics But I want to develop my self with a skills in electronics. I don't know u can help me

Glad it was helpful - Thanks so much for the kind note!

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks!

Thanks so much for watching!

@programmingelectronics  you're welcome ✨️🧠

But of course your code would fail it’s main purpose to familiarize noobs with basic programming structures by introducing complexity that isn’t essential.

I think I've seen this before - is it greyed out?

@programmingelectronics  Yes!

@guilhermerocha9383  Maybe this might help?  The answers don't seem conclusive...   https://forum.arduino.cc/t/port-grayed-out-under-tools-port/408689/6

It's his cousin.

Thanks for watching!

great question!  USB is just fine as long as you're not trying to power current hungry external components.  Where you get into trouble is if you start exceeding circuit draw specifications for the board. An easy way to do that is by trying to power a bunch of servos, motors, or long LED strips.  If you you want to power external loads, you should use an external power supply.

@programmingelectronics  many thanks.

Awesome, I finally have somewhat of the basics. Your format is excellent not assuming anything and skipping over material that is not centered on the subject at hand. If you want to get into flying for any reason, I’d be honored to teach you how I teach my student flight instructors. You would take it so much further I would want to become your student.

After 15:00 it was tough to understand, please use arrow marks and diagrams to indicate more

I feel foolish for writing off the Arduino as the same idea as a Raspberry Pi, and I even went to college for electrical/electronics engineering. A pliable environment for running firmware that isn't actually firm.  This is why the Arduino caught on where the Pi didn't. The Pi is more computer than a new approach to microcontrollers. I made it through a major portion of analog electronics, but I never got to digital and microcontrollers. This is my 2nd chance because I won't be returning to school after 11 years.

Excellent!! I studied Electronics and Processor programming using the Intel Z80 Processor back in the 80's and a little while later 'Visual Basic' programming but subsequently my career path took me into a different genre of Engineering. Now that I am retired I have just purchased an Arduino starter pack for a Winter hobby project, I stumbled across this video, and long forgotten terms and proceedures has come flooding back. I would recommend any newbie to watch this video since your delivery and coverage is excellent, just like a good College Lecturer should do. Many thanks and well done Sir.

Arduino uno rev 3 more like  Arduino uno reverse 3

5/5

in the fade example when brightness goes down to 250 it won't follow the if statement so we'll have a loop 250 then 255

the single most important video i have ever watched in my life. thank you for being so clear

Sir the Arduino board you used the microcontroller is moveable, while the other boards like mine looks like they are fixed. How can we mount them on another object let's we have created a certain moveable object? Thank you.

Great guide for software developers interested on getting started with arduino

I have a water well in back only used for garden. It is 30" dia by 30' deep. It would be neat to have some way to see the water available or water level.

Start with part 5

Ive got a project I am working on, and am exelent at mechanical engineering, but never even touched coding exept a little bit of block programming. I needed to learn arduino, but everytime  I looked at thw code, I thought I was reading hieroglyphics. This helped soooo much, and now I can at least understand the order of events in the code

I’m only 20 minutes in and this video is amazing. Already explained so much. I really want to create a soft tip dartboard game for my old valley dartboard that’s dead. The matrix pad has 19 pin header ports that will need to be read as inputs I’m assuming. So which arduino board would be best suited for me? I’m surprising seeing some similarities to building and programming drones , granted with drones u use betaflight so your not exactly writing code

Why not just input 5 V or 6 V in the first place so there’s very little to dissipate?

What’s the difference between an R3 and an R4 ? What’s the difference between an REV3 and an R3 ? Would it be smart to get a circuit board with more flexibility, and possibly more memory looking to the future?

Thanks so much... Please I need help in writing code for Audio transmission in real-time. I am confused in what library to use.

nice video

"again... selling my children"  - hahaha. We've all done that at some point. No shame in that. :D

why would you sell yor children??!!!

Thanks for the offer!   I actually have an FAA Commercial IFR Helicopter thanks to my time with the military.

I hope you have fun exploring Arduino!

Thanks so much!  Hope you have a great winter diving back in!

Thanks!

Wow - thanks for the note!  I hope you have a blast learning to program Arduino!

Thanks so much!    I feel like software devs can really leverage their skills when diving into Arduino since they can apply their existing experience after getting familiar with some basic digital electronics and then it's off to the races.   The same can be said for folks experienced with electronics, once they get over the "learning to code" hurdle, they can do some amazing stuff with Arduino.  For the rest of us, it can feel like a bit of a mountain to climb, learning to code and digital electronics all at once!  But hey - it's all fun!

Great to hear!  Best of luck!

Thank you for watching!

Glad I'm not alone!

I would never do that...

36:56 😂😂😂 i was expecting until the capacitors decay or something.  hidden stoic  philosopher detected 😂

I can't believe after being a professional engineer for almost 5 years I still want these kits when I get back home after work. Am I too mcuh of a geek? 😂

Hi, I kind of fell in to this without planning. I was 3d printing a Clock that would run using a stepper motor and didn't realize I have to learn how to work with an Arduino board. I have the nano by the way. The designer did include a file call numechron.ino I think I have it loaded to the Nano. How can I tell if it is running. Lots to learn here at age 71.

This is just insane, I've learned so much for just 85 mins 😲😲😲❤️❤️

Excellent introductory video - very much appreciated. Thank You.

This is awesome! I hope to be somewhat decent with Arduino code

Excellent video..!

Very informative.  Best tutorial sofar.  Makes me want to learn all I can on arduino code.  Thanks so much for sharing this.

i kinda already learned lua programming language and the valuables look different

Well explained 👍🏼

It's time to get a very good koffee😮

Can I make a 3d printer with an Arduino board?

This is my first introduction to Arduino IDE...this was such an awesome lesson....I am ready to go already.

how can i run arduino program without using external board? if i have not hardware board.

Great video and I have learned a lot about Arduino. I have a question in regard to a stepper motor. I have a laser engraver that uses a board with all the stepper drivers on it. Unfortunately, I can't find info about the inputs from the motherboard to this board. I would like to use the stepper motor signal ( 4 wires ) to control another DC servo motor ( I would like to exchange the steppers with servo motors.  It is possible to use the signals from those steppers and output speed and direction from Arduino?  Kind Regards Alex

Very cool!   Also very new here.   I'm curious on the servo output being on pin9 (one that is not a PWM pin)  as I think servos use a PWM type signal.   Unless that only applies to PWM read/input capability.

Watched the whole thing and I think I am ready to build something with this knowledge, also just ordered my first Arduino. Thank you for making this video, I really appreciate it.

46:00

Iloveyou my guy!❤

i have good expertise with building mobile application but new with IOT stuff i just wanted to understand is it possible with iot that user select image from app and it display in big display and with best quality.

Not at all!  Hey, it's fun :)

Great to hear!

Glad it was helpful!

Good luck!  It's a lot of fun!

Thank you! Cheers!

Glad you enjoyed it!  Thanks for the note and for watching!

Thank you 🙂

Maybe some popcorn too?

SORRY, for the koffe, but a fresh soda , I am coming to this world being intolerant to the caféine, théine, I am to  nervous and my heart go up and down,  it doesn't support  The over-clocking when I  take these.... But thank and see you soon....

Great to hear!  Have fun!

You could perhaps use an Arduino simulator like Tinkercad or WokWi

for Arduino programming of Arduino Uno : do I need of voltage supply for the board Arduino ? OR IT IS ENOUGH  THE USB CONNECTION FOR PROGRAMING?

Thanks so much for watching!  I hope you have fun!

Thanks a ton for watching and the kind words!

Very clear explanation for beginners!👍

Thank you so much! Amazing tutorial, very well explained and easy to understand! :D

Is it possible to use  C++ ide for the arduino

i watch this last year as a beginer now i am building my own rocket

How many lessons?

Important and interesting

Not much new to me in this one.  Been programming PC's and Arduino for ~20 years.  am looking for something like the debugger facility in MSDEV for Arduinos.  Got any pointers?  Good presentation, though.

Great Video!  This is my first time seeing your channel and I think Im gonna like it!

Upstate NY Micah Alliance; we put the Cah in Micah.   You put the Ha in Mich....  Better get with the program!

Excellent educational value.

you made my day better!♥

Can you please tell me what this line of code mean? B00110000,B01111000,B11001100,B11001100,B11111100,B11001100,B11001100,B00000000,25,  I just don't understand what 25 in this byte array mean. I got this code from some website. They use it for making dot matrix led.  and  how to use bitwise zero shift? for example,  11110111 I want to  left shift zero  to 11101111.

i am soo happy i stumbled into your channel though i studied electronics and electrical engineering i really like to know arduino and your explanation is 5star i very well understand your explanation though i havent done any arduino on hand projects. your explanation is soo clear the way you speak the way you explained makes things interesting i love your channel i rate you the best teacher of arduino.

I'm only 7 minutes in and I'm having a good feeling about this..

what are the pros and cons of, or what determines if you should use a 'for/next' or a 'while' loop?

Excellent 👍

Bro i really liked your corse on arudino but i had a question that can you help me on that how can i start making projects easily!

Thank you soooo much your the best

Every playlist I start I think it’s going to teach me everything from A to Z but unfortunately it ends so fast leaving me behind learned a bit, then I start another playlist hoping the same like the first one but the same just keeps happening again and again  And in every single one I start from scratch again but reach nothing  I hope you make a very long playlist from scratch to professional  I mean from literally scratch to mastering all the codes and using all the input and output devices that can be used  I’m not quite sure that you gonna read and fulfill that wish or not but that’s really what I’m looking for  And I think most of your audience also do

Bro perfect video Thanks for everything Congratulations

Thank you!

Glad it helped!

It depends on the IDE, for example, you can use VSCode with an Ardunio plugin.  Your IDE of choice may have a plugin as well.

Ok thanks !

Awesome!

Thanks!

Thanks!  Arduino IDE 2.0 has a debugger built it.  You'll need to download some software to make it work (I've been using GDBserver from segger), and also get an external debugger, for example, a J-Link Mini-EDU.  Not all Arduino boards require this (I think the Arduino zero has an onboard debugger), but most will.  Also, not all Arduino boards support debugging currently.  Hope this helps some - all the best!

Welcome and thanks so much for watching!

Thanks!

Great!

Thanks!

Great - I hope you enjoy it!

Rough rule of thumb...  If you know ahead of time how many iterations, go with a for loop e.g. you have an array of specified size and need to walk through it If you don't know ahead of time the number of iterations, use a while loop e.g. if user input at runtime determines the number of iterations.  these are not hard and fast rules, but hopefully it helps some.  Best of luck!

Thanks so much for watching!

Thanks for watching!

Thank you so much 😀!

Amazing job 👏

I love Open Horse. I dont even make a lot of projects, but got so many boards..i like to collect them now. Started way back when the uno was new..around 2011-12 and fell in love. And all the different boards and chips, shields and modules available today..just awesome. Programming them with simple c/c++ or even micropython today is a blessing. No more ASM..even though assembler is handy in some cases, writing in this kids language is a joy. Today my fav chip is the cute attiny series..barebones smd attiny85 are just fun. And what ifexpress came up with, the esp32 series, was game changing. Now raspi also starts to make mcu instead of just SoC with their rp2040..❤

Can I charge my two 3.5 volt lithium ion batterys by giving power supply through usb cable??

can my esp8266 board rotae a servo motor 180 deegres when i say a sepsific word?

34:37 Coding starts here :)

My program on arduino UNO runs perfect at beginning but it start to be frozen  after several days. Is there any part of atmega is damaged ?

Is ARDUINO same as Rasberry PI or are they different? Just curious.

Thanks for the nice video. Please let me know, what is the memory layout of arduino program? does it support dynamic memory allocation?

This is a masterpiece. 10 mins into the video and I can already tell I'm going to be watching this a couple of times. Great work!

I found a motor shield, x-bee shield, maker shield v1.0, arduino uno R3, osepp motor shield, a servo shield v 1.0, and and analogous servo.  Now I just recently got interested in CNC stuff and I would like to put together a DIY Cnc pen plotter, or a laser engraver.  I searching for the best options to create either Cnc devices.  I have to search what each shield is capable to make this wrk. 😊

Une présentation en français, mais la narration est en anglais. Pas très professionnel comme façon de faire !

I think you gave me the solution to a problem I have had for a week...so thanks.

Unbelievable! How much information can be put so adeptly and in simple, humourous language! Masterpiece Masterclass!

1:06:51

Could u recommend any book to learn code a little more

I am trying to help the Ukrainians with the war effort. I know there’s a lot of stuff that they have and I’m pretty sure they get a lot but somehow I think a computer like this. I think they could play with them. Turn it into something I fixed up. Somethings that I got together and everything off the Internet work you can get Internet for free now that idiot fat millionaire that’s got all this money stop them from getting their computers together to set up some stuff they needed for the war effort to help the soldiers, my question is this how can I set up this Arduino to where they can use it because I hear that they got the 240 V system or 220 V system there how can I set up this Arduino to where I can send it to somebody over there to give them something that they don’t have or give them something to tinker with it maybe that they can help out with the war there’s so many Ukrainian people getting killed I’m going to help out and I think giving them some equipment like this would do it at least if somebody else had it I think they could play with it and do something with it. Can you help me out I would appreciate it very much.

I just want to write silly things in my led panel why is so complicated? 😭😭

Thanks some much excellent

i am looking at getting the portenta h7 for a full home automation system is this the right one to get? I am not super familiar with all the options but this one seems incredibly powerful and versitile.

You put //0 - 255 for brightness. Are the forward slashes to fill the spaces for a more negative value than zero?

Thank you! 😄

Agreed!  It's great

Wow, thank you!

Fun Stuff!

Awesome!  Good luck!

Thanks a ton!

Glad it helped

The // is for a single line comment which tell the program to ignore that text - it's just for explanation purposes.

He explains this so well, I didn't even realise he was teaching Pulse Width Modulation or Square Wave at the Control Structures section of the video,  ( just blew me away ).   Didn't have to wait to the end of the video to Save this to a Playlist.  Sure glad I Subscribed for this to show up in Youtube suggested videos.  So Liked of course and Hit Bell for more content from Programming Electronics Academy.  Whoa.  Still can't get over how well He explained this.  First class sir.  First class.

Always had a craze to learn Arduino language, but couldn't find a good course. But instead of good, i found the this course, which i found it the best, thanks man!!

I’m just getting into all this stuff and this was THE SINGLE MOST HELPFUL video I’ve ever watched for arduinos. Fantastic work for teaching us in layman terms.

Great tutorial.  I'm an Engineering professor teaching an intro to Engineering course at Austin Community College in Austin, TX.  May I have permission to use this video in my class?  It is perfect

Amazing starter 👌🏼  Thank you 👍🏼

You are superbly clear and amazing in what you do!  Man I m very impressed with you knowledge and delivery

Oh my God the most creative master class

Hello @programmingelectronics Please can you assist me with some enquiries. Someone who's into plc automation how does this arduino knowledge complement such skills. And if I'm looking to delve into embedded systems does this course offer a pathway to it. Sorry for my many questions

Thanks a lot ...

Great video! Thank you! Btw, I thought it was hilarious how the times you said "you'd sell the kids", a cat meow'ed in the background...  coinsedence?... well pre-trained cat?... or simple post-editing?... either way, I was easily entertained

thank you I learnt alot!

ive wanted to learn basic programing for years and finally im stuck inside because of a hurricane so its time for me to do it and so far your video has made coding seem very approachable so im loving it

@1:03:20

I have to say thank very much for this amazing lesson. I definitely learn a lot and really appreciated it and now you got another subscriber lol.

Time Stamps:  13:51

Great video. Thank you. Will be considering the full training program.

Awesome Video!

Thanks for this video. I’m brand new to programming and I’ve already learned a lot. I do have a couple of questions.  I have a pair of LEDs that I want to flicker at a very fast rate.   First question: Do I need a resistor on the anode before connecting the LED to the Arduino or leave it off since the board only draws 5 volts? What’s the rule of thumb when powering LEDs with an Arduino?  Second question: When programming or testing  LED effects on a breadboard, are resistors always necessary?  I guess that was 3 questions…

We're planning to create an arduino fingerprint to activate several devices like heart rate sensor, blood plessure, and temperature sensor, and I really don't know where to start😭😭

This world needs people like you who can teach like this.

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks for the kind words!

Great to hear!  Thanks so much for the note and I hope you have a ton of fun with Arduino!

Glad it was helpful!  Yes, please feel free to show this YouTube video to your classroom.

thank you!!

Thanks!

Thanks so much!

Thanks!  I hope you find it useful!

Most welcome!  Thanks for the note!

It's our editor (Josh) - he has a great sense of humor.

Thanks for watching!

Stay safe and best of luck coding!

Great to hear!

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks!

Check LED rating, if it's less than 5V like 4V then use a resistor which causes voltage drop of 1V   Well if you want to test LED, I do think Resistors are needed . Or you can first test the circuit on simulator like Tinkercad .

42:09 48:00 1:25:31 Finished!

Благодарю Вас за уроки.  Не могли бы Вы снять видео о написании Меню на дисплее 1602 ? Спасибо 🙏

Thank you very much

Hellow stem students :)

I have 2 arduino uno r3’s coming September 7th. I’m going to build a robot slave that can do my dishes! If he becomes sentient I will start paying him, don’t worry! I will treat him like my brother, and I will get American women to sleep with him, because they will literally do anything…

XD Have anyone notice that in the video it switched from  “Open source” to “Open Horse”? At 10:06

This was great. Definitely did learn a ton of stuff!!

Thank you.

Nice interesting tuto Thanks Jean-François

Pleasure to listen to someone who can actually teach!

This is great!! Thank you so much! Often contemplated started with something like this, now I am really to going to do it!

@programmingelectronics I have a theoretical question that I am stuck on. I am in a sentry turret 3d project and I want to combine movement (PIR sensor) and a servo SG90 (laser diode guided) So it would work in a following way : As a person walks in the room PIR sensor would detect and activate servo. I don't expect I could do a lock-on mode where servo would rotate depending on a persons location in the space XYZ as I am still a beginner, but a general concept would work ?

Amazing. Simply amazing.

I recently purchased arduino, with zero ideas on how to use them. I found your video, and it explained every basics that I need to know to take a great start. Thank you so much!

1:21:50 LED controlling

const int trigPin = 7; const int echoPin = 8; const int relayPin = 9;  void setup() {   pinMode(trigPin, OUTPUT);   pinMode(echoPin, INPUT);   pinMode(relayPin, OUTPUT);      Serial.begin(9600); }  void loop() {   digitalWrite(trigPin, LOW);   delayMicroseconds(2);   digitalWrite(trigPin, HIGH);   delayMicroseconds(10);   digitalWrite(trigPin, LOW);      long duration = pulseIn(echoPin, HIGH);   int distance = duration * 0.034 / 2;      Serial.print("Distance: ");   Serial.println(distance);      if (distance < 10) {  // Adjust this threshold as needed     digitalWrite(relayPin, HIGH);  // Turn on relay   } else {     digitalWrite(relayPin, LOW);   // Turn off relay   }      delay(500);  // Add a delay for stability }

59:54

Any idea how to keep the application code running during a power black out event say 24 hours?  Like how to use a 9v battery as a backup to keep the program alive for 24 hours until Edison is recovery on power grid.

23:04 Meow~~

Awesome video, thank you!

Thanks for watching!

Thanks for the kind words!

Great to hear!   It's a ton of fun!

Thanks!  And I must say, fried rice is my fav!

So great to hear!

wire your 9v battery + terminal to Vin and - to Gnd pins, or wire the battery to a connector plug for the barrel jack with the + side to the inside pin hole and - (or common/ground) voltage on the outside cylindrical sleeve of the connector plug. I think using 6 AA batteries in series would be better then the 9v battery if you want it to have power for 24hrs+, I'm not sure the 9v battery would have the juice to go that long.

Thanks so much for watching!

Great to hear!  Thank you so much for the note!

Nine and a half minutes in, and this is so cool for a beginner. exactly what I was after.

35:10

One of the best arduino tutorials out there! Truly deserves my subscription and content is both informative and fun to learn! Well done, I will gladly watch the rest of your videos to help enforce my arduino learning ❤❤

I am programmer from old generation. For long time I didn't understand on how to use  arduino. I bought some arduino board, IMu and gps but never touch it. Your video really help me to be able understanding, programing and using it. By watching this video in less than 2 hours. Every words are clear. Great job and great appreciate. Thanks

Hi, i am using the Sound sensor to make a sound meter, idea is to make the output data as decibels, however the codes (which are same everywhere for the conversion) available on the internet seems to not work with me, as i only get max and min values as out put. Regardless to what pin i use. Can you please help?

Love your cat in the background ayyyyy. And nice educational video!

Full respect to you for making this course, hope to see some more projects! It really helps to those who really needs it.

what was that one frame at 47:21? nevermind, good video!

❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤

my Arduino doesn't have the port option. you go to Tools >>> Port. what do I do? will it cause problem? I use 2.0.3 version.

Open horse

Excellent, many thanks.

open horse?

Bro first 10 mins video you should cut and post , its gonna be super hit

Excellent video. one noob question though:  in the servo example, what's the purpose of starting the serial communication (serial.begin(9600)) if there is no communication needed or value displayed?

I worked in a digital instrument manufacturing company. We needed a tool to help us with many facets programming and sensors. I was an Electronics hobbyist this was my idea. We had an Italian company we worked with. Two weeks after I gave my idea Arduino appeared in our Electronics world. Essentially, I may not be the creator of this tool but I was very happy to see it evolve. Arduino is very versatile. You can also design your own board to interact with the main controller.

I subscribed on your demonstration is enjoying

Fantastic. Thank you very much!

Completely lost, this is hopeless

Few minutes down the video,  I have to pause the to Like & Sub... Enjoying it so far..   Now back to the tutorial.  Thanks for uploading..

Awesome!  Glad is helpful!  Best of luck in your Arduino endeavors!

Ay 37.50, my light bulb moment just lit up @programmingelectronics

Thanks so much for the kind words!

So glad to hear it has been helpful!!  Thanks a ton for watching!

Thank you! 😊

Thanks!

Thanks!

❤^42

What Arduino board are you using?

Thanks!

Thanks so much for watching!

Our video editor gets bored... :)

Thanks!

Great question!  Force of habit for me - no need at all.  I just tend to always use a serial.print() here and there while developing for debugging/testing purposes.

Thanks!

Thanks for watching!

There is hope William!    Technical stuff can take time to sink in.  Perhaps other instruction might help it click for you better.    A reasonable expectation when learning a technical topic is to have a hard time getting things first set up, feel very confused most of the time, and possibly overwhelmed.  If you can push through that initial phase, you might surprise yourself how much you cal learn!

Thanks a ton for watching!  I hope it delivered!

@programmingelectronics  it did.. I will be ordering my 1st Arduino Starter kit as a good add on to my EV conversion project.

@joeabad5908  very cool!  Good luck!

Yabut, you said 90 minutes, but it shows 1:29 hours. Something seems fishy.   I got a dark web buddy from northern korean that has lots more functionality.    just sayin’

Where you based

Im trying to build what I thought would be a simple Halloween prop using a few servos Keyestudio Leonardo R3 & stackable PWM Servo shield. I've tried using test sweeps, you can see the program uploading, but the servos just never respond. I know that's not enough info to diagnose what I'm missing or doing wrong, but I need some help.

1:13:12

Grrreat vid! Subbed :)

I have a lil background on some codes since i use to play online mmorpg games making bots 😂 when i was in 20s. But these codes are a lil more advanced so I’m gonna follow the other commenter who watched this vid for 5x 😜. Thanks for taking your time spreading your knowledge to a million of people. God bless!

I learned the BASIC programming language in the 80's, and studied electronics in the 90's. Then I went into construction and forgot most of it, but now that I'm retired, I'm getting back into it. This was a good refresher. Thank you for your great help and humor! And don't worry about the children, you can always have more...😅

who are you calling pinhead

Great Video....

LOVE IT ❤ is there a triple thumbs up button?!

hello dear friend   when i install android on an arduino the device is different or not? I want to know if ads id and android id change, when installing the new Android in the arduino.  Who can help me with this?

Excelent stuff! Thanks!

excellent video. I learned a lot. I'm 62 preparing to retire and this is what I want to do. Thank you

Seria maravilhoso se este video fosse em portugês, eu acredito que vocês tenha um conteúdo fantástico sobre Arduino, eu tenho muita vonta de aprender para criar máquina de proposito geral, como fabricar blocos de concreto celular, placas de gesso 3D entre outros, penso criar os prototipo em impressora 3D validar e depois criar a máquina real, preciso muito aprender sobre programar motores no geral de passo, DC, AC entre outros..... é uma pena que conteúdo seja inglês...

I've been designing and building analog hardware devices for about 10 years now. I've been wanting to learn pic/microntrollers for years now. This course is excellent for beginners and experienced students alike. Wonderful job explaining things. I just loaded my first sketch onto the UnoR3 and I couldn't be happier. Thank you so much for this invaluable information! I'll be watching all of your videos now. 🤘

Thanks for a remarkably concise and incomparably competent synopsis!

Hands down the best e-learning video for Arduino that I have come across.  Watch it 3,4,5 times and it all starts to come together.  The first time I watched it nothing really made sense.  By the 3rd time it made sense and the 5th time I was ready to go and put everything into a small program.  Great video!

What an incredible video! I just wanted to take a moment to say a huge thank you for creating such an informative and well-explained tutorial on Arduino. Your passion for the subject truly shines through, and it's evident that you put a lot of effort into making this video beginner-friendly.

This is just about the most well explained video I've ever seen. I've been watching Python vids for 2 years and if 10% of them were this good I'd be a better programmer. Thank you!!

Thank you...

must have been a rounding error :)

@programmingelectronics    I can tolerate that as an exception. Just please don’t tell my Grandmama, she be 98 years-4 months-eleven days-17 hours-and 34 minutes old in 2 minutes from now. (Yes, includes leap-years, coriolis effect, etc. ) She be very sensitive to her remaining time here. Thank-you.

Awesome, thanks for watching!

Thanks so much for the kind words!  Best of luck!

Thanks so much for watching!

for Arduino programming of Arduino Uno : do I need of voltage supply for the board Arduino ? OR IT IS ENOUGH  THE USB CONNECTION FOR PROGRAMING?

Thanks for watching!

Very much appreciated!  I hope you have fun with Arduino - it's a blast!

Thanks for watching!

Great!  It's a wonderful hobby - I hope you have fun!

Thank you so much for the kind words!

for Arduino programming of Arduino Uno : do I need of voltage supply for the board Arduino ? OR IT IS ENOUGH  THE USB CONNECTION FOR PROGRAMING?

Thanks so much - I am glad you found it helpful!

Thanks Larry!  Glad to the penny is dropping for you and that I am not the only one who needs lots of repetition!

Thanks so much for kind note!!!  I really appreciate it!

Thanks so much!  I am glad this helped!

Thanks for watching!

Amazing thank you so

Happy Birthday to my high school Physics teacher. Thank you, Madam, for introducing me to Arduino. Today is your birthday. It has been a while since I last met and contacted you. I was looking for C++ tutorial video but this video was suggested under it. I'm sorry I can't reach you directly to send this birthday wish. I am not ready yet. I hope you are in good condition, you and your family. I pray for your health and happiness. May Allah protect you and your family always. You are, undoubtedly, one of the best teachers I have ever met. It was an honor to be your student. Your determination and unforgettable spirit in educating your students will always be remembered.  I don't always do this, and would not actually do, but this day, I feel like writing (typing) these down. I must admit, so many students of my class, and my batch, did not appreciate you the way we did for other teachers back then. You did not talk about it, but I know it hurt you a bit. I may not express my thoughts physically, but I'll always remember you too.

i love it and learn a lot in every min, sir particular paid course is available for all Arduino. i am a student

I'm not seeing any static prevention.

its not easy learning electronics... but explaining about electronics is even harder... glad this video makes it easier to understand. i have to rewatch it multiple times so it sticks in my head better 😅

as a programmer my problem is in wire, resistor, breadboard, hardware side.

Your presentation is superb. Wow!

I didn't know Arduino is opensource. I'd be happy to support the Ardruino brand for making it opensource. :-)

Honestly now my coding starts with chat gpt "write me some code for arduino to...."

24.31

Great breakdown! Thanks

Greatest video ever! Thanks a lot man!

at 47:20 you can observe the magnificent Silvan Library btw

thank you so much for this video.This helped me so much.

Traumatised cat getting sold again, lol 😹

What a fantastic introduction to Arduino code. I thought i was going to need a PHD to understand this but you made it super simple to understand. Thanks from a new subscriber.

yeah still dont understand i have 2 hooverboard motors on seperate esc and no clue how to hook them up

Thanks for the tipp with TinkerCAD, I bought and downloaded fritzing, that is a great piece alwell, but somehow I can't code, just design  the circuit.  I will definitely buy an Arduino and some stuff for it, but i wanted to prepare myself virtually a bit to see if i can understand someting before I get into butter.

Great 👍

Maybeilbuyinewkeyboard

Thanks for tuning in!  I hope it helps!

Thanks so much!

I hear you!

Thank you so much!  Really appreciate the note!

Agreed!

Glad you liked it!  I hope it helps!

Glad it helped!

Glad it was helpful!

Tinkercad is a great tool!  Thanks for the note.

Thank you! Cheers!

Your video is worth 2 years of learning at a college! Well done

Superb😊

kids these days...back in my day we did our I/O by writing assembly..not this new fangled C or C++.

Hey, this was a great tutorial for a beginner like me who has to code their machine! I was just wondering how you would set a program to only proceed if an input was high, and wait for that input. Thanks!

Been watching a couple different videos trying to learn about Arduino so I can work on projects with my son and connect with him. I have 2 boys, 10 & 11. The 10 year old is my sports guy so it's easy for he and I to bond. We can have a catch or shoot hoops and thats how we bond. My 11 year old is my brainiac and even though I am decently tech savvy, I don't know how to teach him or figure out and find projects that we can do together and learn how to code, complete projects and learn about robotics which he has interest in, and I find it fascinating as well.  I digress, this video is PERFECT for us to begin, find that common ground and get rolling. I am now super excited to begin with him and this video makes me feel confident that we can learn from the ground up.  This is amazing information and a well produced video and tutorial. Everything we need to get going. Thank you so much for making this video. I can't tell you how helpful it is and how excited I am to enter a world that I otherwise could not. A million thanks and can't wait to start!!!

Isn't there any other platform like octropart in india

This is by far the best arduino tutorial I've seen yet, thank you

nicely explained.

57:54 did he forget the input or do you not need it here because isnt the purpose of a sensor to measure something

I was waiting for you to explain new commands and code like - void random name here() -these stuff

I used the website for half a day but have some cash so provably going to nuy a real arduino uno

best tutorial i've ever seen.

This Mother is excited to begin mastering the "Motherboard!" Hopefully I impress my teens. I shall be the coolest Mummy around. Perhaps as cool as the American dude doing the voice over 🤭

Your new fan from New Zealand! The world of Arduino felt like an exclusive, secret society to be understood by  engineering impresario's ...until now! This video is clear and concise with the occasional American slang such as "super stoked" and "I hope you're pumped" and gasp..."crud!" My only gripe is the slightly creepy man silhouette in black. An actual photo of a human is nicer.

Excellent video

this was really helpful, thnks dude

Actually, that code at 37:00 was similar to what they used on half of the Apollo missions... awesome stuff!!

I can’t believe I watched the whole thing… but I’m glad I did!  Outstanding presentation, informative AND entertaining throughout!  Excellent voiceover, good scripting AND NO talking head… just valuable information onscreen!

hey, im just curius, is the code that we make with arduino can be flash on smaller & cheaper chip?

How to controll vfd micro danfoss with arduino? thanks

Thank you! 😃

Thank you! I hope it helped!

Great to hear Jeff -  I am so glad it has been helpful and thanks for your kind words!  Best of luck on learning this stuff, it can be very rewarding!

Thanks!!

Best of luck!

Thanks for watching!  The name of the silhouette guy is Dave.

Great to hear!

Thankyou so much 👍👍👍

36:10 setup() is executed once because the main program (hidden) calls the function only once while the loop function is enclosed in a loop (i.e. while true) and is executed for ever. Here, the user is only defining the 2 functions to be used by the main program.  void main() {        setup();  // executed once        while (true) {loop()}   // executed for ever }

Thank-you for this course ❤

46:40 what if the condition is written (brightness==0 | | brightness==255). - would it be the wrong way to write this condition?

just spectacular

Thank you so much for this!!

Been wanting to buckle down and actually learn Arduino for a while now and I am SOO glad I chose to do it with your video. Made it very easy to understand and I left the video feeling like I actually learned something. Keep up the great work.

47:21 haha at normal play through I saw something flash and thought to myself, "was that an MTG card??" Lol sure enough it was! Not sure what that Easter egg is for but I like it!  Also, thanks for the video I am learning a lot! 😁👍  🌳☀️💀🔥💧

Interesting....!!!! So, the library can work even with zero IQ " copy paste"...😂😂😂😂

Well, I am going to try to ask a question here and see if anyone can answer it. It is a SIMPLE question. S I M P L E  yet I cannot find any documentation or examples to help me, and I don't know a single person to ask. Here are the particulars:  I have a foam-board, 10 inches by 10 inches square. It is divided into 25 equal squares, using 5 rows of 5 squares stacked on each other. In the center of each square is an LED. Now, what I want to do is create 10 different patterns of LED to be illuminated. Not to flash, not to sequence, just be ON. The patterns are varied, but can be an "X" or a "H" of an "L", etc. Only one pattern will be illuminated at one time. HOWEVER, some of the LEDS will be needed to be used in several different patterns, such as the H and the L have the 5 left column LEDS in common.  Can a program be written using and with Arduino that will allow writing 10 different settings to illuminate the LEDS in each of the 10 patterns>  IN OTHE WORDS, can the H have a setting to turn on the LEDS, and a separate one for the X, and a separate one for the L, and do on down the line with all the patterns?

Heard about the device (Arduino) from a colleague and wondered what it really is. This presentation is just perfect for beginners. I really learnt a lot.

Love it!

"Open horse"

Very help full

I write code in c# I think c++ will be easy to learn!

Very useful and informative. Thanks

55:55 sorry but I don't get this part, when the brightness is 250, that will still trigger the fadeamount= -fadeamount even tho it's not less than 0 or more than 255?

great vedio radhakrishna mysore india

Very nicely explained. I have been thinking how best to introduce Arduino skills to students of some local schools in my country, Sri Lanka. This is very clear and methodically explained. I would like a bit more on how come the name 'Arduino' and its connection with the AVR, etc. Thanks a lot.

How can A0 be an integer? Or is it allowed to be an integer because it's a pin number?

did u learn it how is your journey?

Hi Mark, yes for sure.  Would you have separate buttons to show the different symbols?  Or would you just have them display for a set amount of time and cycle through?

@programmingelectronics  Thank you for your reply. I don't know if it's actually physical buttons or keyboard command that I need. But I would simply like a way to show the different patterns when needed, and for each one to be lit for a indeterminant time, although the approximate time would be around 15 minutes each. No flashing, no alternating patterns. Example: Just the pattern "L" for 15 mins, then the pattern "X" for 14 mins, then the pattern "H" for 21 mins, and any of the other patterns in the same manner. Thank you again for your help.! 🤩

Great - thanks Merick!  I hope you get hooked ;)

Thanks Andy!

Thanks Ahmad!

Once you hit 255 you flipped the sign of the fade amount to -5. It does not revert back to positive 5 until you hit zero again. When you hit 0, you would put a negative on fade amount again which is already -5. So it would see negative negative 5 which would just switch it back positive. If that makes any sense.

Thanks for watching Radhakrishna!

Thanks so much for the thoughts Aloysius!

That's right, A0 just refers to a pin number, so you can use the number directly.

This was an excellent presentation in a 90 minute time frame. The narrator couldn't have been better or more clear than he was. I still haven't bought an Arduino board to play with, but I will real soon, now that I know what to expect and do to make it work. Thank you for the explanations.

Nice thing about the Arduino IDE is that other platforms are using it, like the ESP32 wifi module. Understanding the way the IDE uses libraries is probably the most confusing part though.

This is super, i have done a month worth of learning in class in an hour, thank you

Don't mind this, this is for personal use  56:11

loved it .. been doing arduino off and on 3 years.. anything on Nextion touch screen? kind of stuck there

First video that doesn't assume anything, I appreciate the time he takes to explain even the most evident in case some of us don't know. This video is GREAT!   Just as someone mentioned earlier, I thought I had to enroll in college classes to find this information.  I'm interested in animatronics and thanks to this video I'm not giving up. THANK YOU!

MY Arduino UNO is not getting recognized as COM 4 or any other COM.! What should I do.?

Thank you really helped.

I'm just listening to this while working because I need to start learning how to apply microcontrollers and I am only a few minutes in but I am grateful you are honest about other boards. Years ago when I wanted to learn about these I watched a few different videos that had an incredibly biased view saying other boards wouldn't work right or accept programming and it made things more confusing. A few years later after a mature circuit building now I understand why they would work just the same and despise people making electronics way more complicated than they actually are. There seemed to be this knowledge gate keeping going on at the time and now it's mostly due to YouTube's policy on what video can and cannot be monetized. So if you are just starting out in this as a hobby good luck finding a video that's not in Hindi regarding high voltage, mains, inverters, or any other hugh energy projects. I also understand you can't make a step by step guide on how to make a potentially dangerous project but even spreading knowledge can get you demonetized. Some good I can understand some Hindi due to a lot of the electrical engineering words still being English I started to fill in the blanks haha. Anyways, thanks for putting this out.

As a retired. Computer programmer and basic electronic knowledge, I think I can learn to do this. I am inspired by this video as it will teach me to use this board.  As the other guy said, I need to watch this several times to grasp it all.  Thinking about learning some basic C+ programming also .   Tks for making this helpful video.

It's such an odd place to be in. Programming is 2nd nature to me at this point due to my career in IT. Wiring up something as simple as a button and LED light is extremely complex to me. I'm going to look at your modules & hope there's one that handles the physical aspects of the board as that's what I struggle with more than anything!

What a well put together video! 🙂

Thanks a lot.

Really great tutorial! You made it look so easy and I was glued to the screen from beginning of the video to the very end. Great work!

VERY IMPRESSIVE DEMONSTRATION , I M NEWBEE , BUT FIND CONFORTABLE , THE WAY YOU TEACH,    I HAVE ONE QUESTION ,  HOW TO CONTROL DC MOTOR ( HIGH LOAD CARRING ) WHICH REQIRE  12V DC  3 AMP

Amazing video! Subscribed! Would this method work to program a robotic arm in a production line? or what other software would you recommend?

Great Video! I have a couple years of experience from Visual Basic back in High School but was surprised at how easy the switch would be.   Ever since college I had wanted to learn C++ but was always put off by either time constraints or those THICK Instructional Programming Books. 20years later with CNC related equipment flooding consumer market place Ive found myself wishing I could take advantage of an Arduino for various projects in my workshop.   The flexibility and versatility of microcontrollers to suit each persons custom needs makes these devices powerful tools; yet what surprised me was with a less than 60min crash course on the coding, how low the hurdle to entry actually was.   I think having a foundation in a programming language helped me a lot but I believe more than anything this video was done well enough that even an absolute beginner could follow along with the simple analogies and explanations.   While learning all the available commands would take a fair investment in time, the video did great at showcasing the benefits of the Arduino system and how to quickly capitalize on the work of others w/o the need to build the code sketch yourself from scratch.  I would say most first time beginners would probably need to re-watch the video 1 more time to truly get the most from it but I can confidently say just from seeing it once I would have no problem piggybacking off someone else’s unfamiliar code simply by just reading through it.   Any unfamiliar functions can always be searched or reference but most should be self explanatory by their name … and any that aren’t usually will be accompanied by notes to help make clear the purpose of the function.  Good 👍 job!

If I could add 10k likes here, I would do so. Precious material, thanks a lot for it!

You are a good teacher..  can I use C# instead of IDE code.  I would like to use a GUI to interact with the hardware

I HAVE TAKES , SOMEWHAT   COMPLEMENTARY ,,,.. _WIL

Thanks for the note George!

I agree Richard - being able to program so many different boards with the Arduino IDE is pretty nice.

for Arduino programming of Arduino Uno : do I need of voltage supply for the board Arduino ? OR IT IS ENOUGH  THE USB CONNECTION FOR PROGRAMING?

Great to hear!  Thanks so much for the note - much appreciated!!!!

I hope it helps!

@programmingelectronics  Yes it really did, i have some experience, i programmed a few stuff already but this class really helped me find little stuff  to help me with or helped me understand some commands that i just used and not finding any logics, so thank you!

Thanks for watching!  I'll have to do some research on the Nextion display.

Glad it was helpful Alejandra!

Thanks Gary - great to hear!!

Thanks!

Thanks a ton for watching!

Best of luck!

Thanks Mark!

Thanks a ton for watching ziad!

I hope it helps Milan - thanks for the note!

Thanks for watching Kishor!  And thanks for the content recommendation!

39:20 To the point that true is technically defined as "not false": false = 0; true != false

10:06 hmmm, I also want an arduino horse

Without a doubt a super introduction to Arduino. Please consider calling everything something other than a ton. An overused layman’s term, and you can do better.

Really well done  Spelling out some holes in my studies

Thank you. That was great.😀

👍

Thank you. Now I am much more likely to dig up that arduino card I bought 2 years ago, plug it into my linux box and do interesting things.  You are doing a real service.

Exceptional tutorial video..!! Just what I needed to see.. Cant wait for my new Arduino UNO to get here..!! Liked and Subscribed..!!

Fantastic video !  Thanks for taking the time to make this video, seriously.  It helps greatly.

Can I request to do a Arduino base system with algorithm for thesis thank you and God Bless

is there a master class for modules, sensors, motors, shields, bridges, raw microcontrollers, ...,etc ?

It's a great MC but my early experiences involved a lot of program memory space worry. The basic 16MHz clock is adequate but limts scope on some projects requiring high er clock speeds. Overclocking is not an option.

So basically Arduino is a translator that tells the native hardware how to do what, like the voice of god. Aka it's an if-then logic algorithm you tailor to your usecase

Thank you

Brilliant share  Easy to understand for the beginners   Thanks

Thank You for this.

I appreciate your kindness teaching thank you sir. sir please how can you help me on how I can use arduino and driver module to power my 24v 46amps DC motor for my project sir. for 4 years am been dealing on this. thanks nd God bless you

This video gave me such a head start.  I ordered the Elegoo starter kit with Arduino Mege and I started the lessons yesterday.  Although it was helpful, it didn't go into much detail about the code.  Pretty much, just plug this in there, upload the code, push that button and watch the result.  This video was the information I was looking for.  Thanks.

Thank you so much for useful knowlegement!

Very good job and explanation thanks

Depends on whether you have bool, Bool or BOOL. Well, on Windows that is. For Standard C++ you're right.

Great to hear Randy!

Thanks for watching Ignacio!!

😎

Thanks for the note Joe!  Good luck, it can really be a ton of fun.

Thanks Richard!

Glad it was helpful!!!

Thanks for watching!

Thanks Akbar!

Thanks for watching Raul!

Great to hear Steve!  Thanks for the note.

Thanks Giang!

I began programming with LOGO in 1979 as a very eager elementary school student. I'm still amazed at how inexpensive and accessible computer controlled devices have become. Keep on sharing knowledge. The future depends on it.

I just wanted to congratulate you on this video. I normally would never consider subscribing to an educational service because I know all of the information can be found for free, but you've done such a great job explaining this subject that I think I will subscribe. Usually people teach too fast or too slow for me, but you had a great pace. It was very easy to follow and engaging. The video flew by.

these  were the best 90 minutes i have ever spent   in my life ,, truly  thank you man.

Fantastic video love it help so much thanks

The best teacher i have ever come across.....😊😊😊😊😊

Thank you!!! I can share this to my class very informative video... hopefully you can have more videos like this and some codes for free for students. Thanks keep it up!!!:goodvibes:

This  was something exactly I was looking for   Thank you so much for making such informative video

This is absolutely amazing 🤩  I can only imagine how much time you spend editing this. Truly fantastic!

Brilliant video. I have a little bit of programming experience from college but I am rusty. I really appreciate that you give a quick synopsis of the more complicated functions before moving on, instead of just skipping it. Cheers

WTF I went to Octoparts website and my  address bar tab bar and bookmarks bar stopped workin.

If you were to target this video for the ESP 32 Cam I'm other ESP 32 stuff like a rover and that would fix the Internet because that's not usually focused on ardwino what it should be so you basically would cut out the entire other half of YouTube worth of wasted time request a simple video doing it

buen video!

hmmm,,,,gotta admit. you are good at explaining.

very helpful

I have not seen coding class like this. I love 💕💕😘 it to much

Very quick and dirty.  I like.  I even like getting back to C++ again.  I last used it in college.

I'm learning from a pro

Man, you course is so good and yet so high level that I could present it to my newborn niece to watch and she would become a master of Arduino Nice job!

if you have zero money, i would wonder how you are getting on the net to watch this video........ O.o

To control a slider for designed equal shifts with 10% accuracy, what Arduino code to search for stepper or servo?

Thanks Adam!   We’re trying to do our best, hope it helped!

Thanks Robert!

Thanks for watching!

Thanks so much!

Gracias!

Thanks!

@programmingelectronics  no..thank you

Thanks!

Thanks Uherbor!

You are welcome

Thanks!

Not sure I’d go that far, but I’m glad to hear it’s helping!

Thank you

Ha!  Glad it’s helpful!

Excellent presentation!! I'll be back.

Should i learn electricity theory and little bit Math about that to start playing Arduino?  i hope someone read this

Very Helpful for a noob like me. Thanks

Agree with ChickenNug. Time passed quickly! Thank you so much too. God bless.

I always wondered what happened to my first born ;) 😅

Could I use an Arduino to make an Iron Man suit? I mean, Tony Stark did it in a cave, with a bunch of scrap

Great all-rounder WS. Thanks a lot !

@ 1:03:52 I am a completely new 2 Arduino;... this being my 1st watched video... ... With regards 2 the button being pressed... ... ? If I have a circuit that already exists that includes a push 2 make contact button;... 2 reset the system;... circuit... ... Can the Arduino be programmed 2 close the internal button 4 2 seconds after a 5 second delay of detecting it needs 2 B reset... By;... bypassing the internal button & the Arduino simulates the button being pressed;... & then waits until a new fault is detected;... with a maximum of 10 resets detected within 2 minuets variable set by the programme;... then locks out until the Arduino is reset...

Amazing video

Excellent content with great examples and simple to follow information. Thank you very much. I learned more about Arduino programming  in 90 minutes than by reading an entire book.

This is so far the best presentation I have seen to understand Arduinos. I'm 63 and not a programmer ( other than High School level Fortran and Cobol in the late 70's!). You have given me the inspiration to learn how to program my Arduino to use on my model railroad...many thanks.

thank you so much !! this was the best head-start one can one have while on his electronic programming journey!

Ooh nice

love arduino

Wow. I couldn't believe that I had the patience of watching the whole 85 minutes of your class and I am very new to this subject. Thanks for making the complex subject so easy to understand.

32,768 and 32,767 has a total range of 65,536. The same as 2^16. Interesting.

Where would you look for more info about the library you plan to use, But don’t understand the details on how to use it?

"if you're building a haouse then grab a hammer". i can se someone has ever built a house :P

I still can’t code what I want with no YouTube videos ☹️

I watched a 90min educative video without getting bored!!! Very good job

Thanks Jeffery!

basic electricity theory i suppose, since you'll need it to connect it to breadboards and the like but nothing more advanced than a highschool class would be necessary

Great to hear - thank you for watching!

Thank you!

:)

I think Arduino can help bring out everyone’s inner Tony Stark.   Or perhaps our inner Hulk if we get too frustrated

@programmingelectronics underrated reply’😂

Thanks Salvatore!

Thanks Ahmed!

Glad it was helpful Julio!

Great to hear Greg!  There are lots of RR folks using arduino, maybe you have run into some of those groups already.

Glad it helped Dhanraj!

Thanks!

Same here!

Thanks Frank!

This is a great question David!!!  Ok, really depends on if the library author(s) created any documentation for its use.   If the they did, then usually searching google for some like “<library of interest name> documentation” may get you there.  If not, you can look at the library source files.   Assuming you have already downloaded the library,  the source .cpp and .h files would be in Arduino>libraries>library name

Lol,  very true,  but i think the analogy still works

Thanks Youssef!

Is a little confusing but I got how to do it 😅

Put

This lesson is indispensable for anyone into Arduino. After viewing numerous videos on Arduino, this one is the absolute best.   MANY thanks!  👍

I was extremely confused the first day I stepped into an Arduino class. But with this tutorial, I think I've been able to grab the concept and I'm good to go.

I was want to sleep at 12:00 but i found this video and i can't stop it

Can You purchase a board already come with the programing done?

Perfect Content. Time saving elaborative, detailled cant have right to describe

was i the only one hearing the cat in the background? 23:04

very helpful

Best explanation of code structure I have come across. Thank you

Words are running out of my mouth... Just  HATS OFF 🎩  THANKS A MILLION TIMES 🙌🏼

I have a question, what happens if you're  happy with the code? How can you change to an actual pcb?

it is very helpful

uhh this is most helpful but haven't been able to find answers to my question which is "when I'm typing the code it's all just normal black but in the lessons some of the text is green and some is red- is this normal? do I need to assign colour to the set up and loop? is there an issue with the downloaded drivers? HELP

The best tutorial on Arduino in the world! You have broken the language barrier for a 65 year old mechanical engineer. I have always looked at electronics as a foreign language until I listened to this. I bought a kit last week (Mega) but we’re about to give up that was until I watched this, thank you very much you are a great teacher.

i agree they are very cool, but why are they not just referred to as a PLC? are they not still a PLC?

Lol at about time stamp 29:35 you mention selling your children to the license agreement and there is a small scream in the background 🙂 cool video thanks

I'm 1/4 of the way into this video and other stuff i was confused with is all starting to make sense. Great video!

That is without a doubt, the best video I've seen on Arduinos introduction. Thank you so much for sharing that great knowledge.

I love this video ❤

Great!  It is a bit confusing for sure!

Thanks so much!!

Great to hear!

Sorry it couldn't put you back to sleep :)

Great question! Generally, you'll have to hire a developer to do that code work for you.

Thanks Muhammad!

Great to hear!

Thanks so much!

Thank you!  Glad it helped!

Great to hear Ayo!

Hi Dave,  the code coloring is something that does not effect the operation of the code, but is useful for the developer - the coloring is handled by the IDE.  It could be you are using a different version of the IDE, or perhaps a library you are using has changed, and the coloring is not the same.

So glad it helped!  This stuff really can take some time to sink in and there are so many ways to dive in.  Best of luck in all your endeavors Winston!

Thats our video editor, he has a funny sense of humor :)

Great to hear!  Glad it has been helpful!

Wow, thanks Mehdi!

Thanks!

6:17 important part

sell kids - meow

Sorry, i just have to nit pick, put pronounced as putt? I'm not familiar with anywhere/accent that says put like that. Great video otherwise, just came across that and was confused when I wasn't looking and just half listening.

Thank you, mate.

This is important in Robotics. A cool thing to start as a hobby.

You have done a wonderful job! Thank you for taking your time and interest and sharing it with everyone!

incredibly helpful

51:27 how can i type the or sybole on a keyboard is it just two Ls like this l l

thanks so much my grade 9 mechatronics class is so grateful for this quality intro to the science that is arduino

A very friendly tutorial for newcomers, which solved a lot of my doubts.

A very concise explanation, with everything you need.   Very interesting.  Any recommendations to custom made designs ?

Hook me up with that car company that was selling the 4x4 for $5,995k 😂

If I am going to reset my control board for my 3D printer, how many volts is a "low voltage"?  If I were to apply reset to my board, does it reset the board to have no functions at all, or does it reset the board back to default factory settings?

Taking a microprocessor class and you’re so clear and concise. Thank you for giving me the confidence I need to take this class and enjoy projects out of class

Hi! Is there some app to configure the setup to type a letter when I press a button? I've asked this because I want to use this into Roblox and this is the only possible way, since it doesn't support joystick or anything else except the Xbox controller. Thanks!

Literally just commenting to drive engagement and hope more people find this video. Super helpful

Great tutorial, thank you

15:32 Whats the difference between the Ground pin next to pin 13 and the Ground pins at the power section of the board next to 5V?

This is the type of Arduino tutorial I was looking for. I saw a ton of Arduino tutorials on the youtube but none of them matched the quality of your video. Much appreciated sir.

Excellent tutorial 🇦🇺👍

I hope you like the humor!

You're not the only one who has mentioned this :)   I have no idea where I picked that up, but I am actively working to correct to say "put" instead of "putt".  I don't even play golf.

Thanks so much for watching!

Totally agree Beau!

Thanks Gus!

Thanks so much for watching!

Shift + \   It’s not a lowercase L, it’s the “pipe” symbol.

@AnikF1R  thanks

Thanks!

Awesome!  So glad it is helpful - best of luck to your class!

Great!

Glad it was helpful Astro!

Great question!  Yes you can, we have some videos on it here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vLLhU3mX1M You'll need to use a certain kind of Arduino board, like a Leonardo to emulate a keyboard.  I hope this helps.

Thank you for the answer! You really helped me!

@thegreenshadow4716  Great!

Thank you Dru!!!!  So glad it helped

Thanks so much for watching Don!

Such a good question Puggy!!!  They all connect to the same ground - so they are literally all the same ground, having 3 is just for convenience sake.

@programmingelectronics  Thank you!

Thank you!

Thank you! Cheers Alan!

Tks!

You say you can DIRECTLY connect an LED to the board, do you mean that? No resistor?

21 min and im already using arduino

29:32 Meooow

great video thank you

I'm 77 years old. I'm OK with analog hardware but software is a challenge. Your video was fast paced but after viewing it a few times I learned a lot. Really excellent!

Gosh, this guy is the Teacher I would send to the Inner-City to get some kids interested in Technology ... and, they need someone who sounds this fluid and encouraging!

This is enough let me wait for graduation

Good video. Learned a lot. Question, on the example sketches, how do we know how they are wired up? Thanks.

1:26:00 in and I find out again that it takes a lot of time to become a Noob and also, Its hard to type when your this tired. Arduino may have made the hardware open source but it would be unusable if it were not for people like you guys at Crash Course who put in 100s and thousands of hours it takes to make these "King Tuts"!!! BRAVO, People, You give me Faith again that there are people still out there trying to make the world a better place and not lying, cheating and stealing all they can to make a couple o bucks. My hat is off and I THANK YOU

I used to program in machin language, Basic and APL... in the 80s LOL. Finally getting back to  favorite hobby. Thanks for the comprehensive tutorial.

Merci!

You know what you can't do with it? Run it from D:/ because it compiles from C:/

This video is super important as an arduino programmar. My request to make more videos with your easy explanation about Arduino projects. Thank you.

Your video really help me as a zero cash arduino begginer programnar. I know from you about Arduino simulator to practice Arduino program. Thanks for giving many information to be an arduino programmar.

This by far the best intro into Arduino. So well organized and explained. Thanks

29:28 "im starting to doubt this guy's sanity"

23:01 yes yes, "definitely something a true programmer would like to know about"

I am knee deep into photogrammetry on a turntable. I was turning it manually until yesterday. I had all the hardware to automate it and finally built the circuit. Now I only need a line to fire the shutter. In the interim I'll use the intervalometer included with Magic Lantern software for Canon cameras. Excellent video!!!

Thanks for your tutorial. I have a question the possibility of powering the Arduino with Power source stated 5V 4A?.

Look at chatgtp it can do the code for you

Thanks

Same to me. But now we can ask ChatGPT to write the code for us, then run it.

Mike, I'm 64 and have been playing around with Chat GPT for about 2 months now, and although I had a little bit of trouble with prompt engineering at first, now I'm writing code for the Arduino and building projects.

Analog is making a comeback in COMPUTERS. The old analog computers are way more fascinating to me than digital. Infinite resolution!

​ @416deepak still need a coder?

Mike you're a god-damned BEAST for that 😳👏👏 my pops is mid 50's and won't take the time to understand how his own phone works, let alone the level you're going at. Nothing but respect, sir!

As others have said, much respect. My parents are in their 50s and instead of learning anything tech wise, they just call me or my brother to do it for them.    Never stop learning 🖤

P

0

0p

0

Pp

Pp

Help me someone what do all these letters mean? @kisanbaaita

Recently I came to know that there is a way to contact archangel Gibreel. If you ask him about such things they will guide you all the way.

I've been a programmer for decades.  I learned on a Commodore 64 when I was just a little kid.  So modern programming languages just come natural to me.  But I have a hard time with complex electronics.  I've been wanting to make a variable output voltage pure sine wave inverter and, despite watching videos on how PSW inverters work, I'm still clueless.  For me, the software part is the only easy part.

If you are 77 I'm 99

I'm now 78 since June. I'm catching up on you! @culinary_kid

Funny how I'm good with software but hardware is a challenge. Great tutorial anyway.

You are a rockstar! cheers

Nice!

This man is out there, damn

Shucks folks, I'm not a threat to the universe. Honest. Mike in Germany @DaNikschl

Damn here I'm 19 and thinking I'm late

respect to you

No 77 years old says he's 77 years old😂😂

Good for you! Never too old to learn. I am 65 and am constantly refreshing my education where I've lapsed and learning new, modern methods. Good luck Mike!

One day at a time Mr. 77 year old.  Remember when you learned how to drive bike or a car?  It can be challenging specially if you are on the road it can be scary in the beginning.  We nowadays have the advantage that we can download, and do everything at home with our own PCs.  I'm learning too, and tha is fun!  😃

Mr Mike , tengo 56 años y me está costando entender el inglés.  Me está costando adaptarme a las nuevas tecnologías.  Usted merece un aplauso,se mantiene actualizado y estudiando constantemente. Felicidades!!.

@CaminoFinancieroYT  Escucha musica que te guste y como eso es repetitivo se te va quedando.  Esa es una gran tactica pedagogica para aprender Ingles, intentatlo y vera y te dio algo canta a la par de esas canciones.  Funciona!  Si te pones a estudiar el metodo normal te aburres y quizas no entiendes.  Cuentame como te va, te aseguro que lo lograras!

Is it

I am an electronic teacher in a technical school. I was very impressed with your explanation, I wish to have more explanation so that it can help me in my teaching. Thank you.

Everything will come together. Stick with it.

I’m 34, and could only keep up till like 8 min in.

To me software is the easy part, the hard part is the hardware.

I'm 44 and the complete opposite, even though in my childhood I was dabbling with electronics.

Thanks!   It is such a fun hobby!!  I hope you have a blast Pierre!

Glad it helped Muhammad!

Great!

Thanks David!

for Arduino programming of Arduino Uno : do I need of voltage supply for the board Arduino ? OR IT IS ENOUGH  THE USB CONNECTION FOR PROGRAMING?

Awsome

Any comments on DrDurino?

As a beginner, proved really helpful

This video would have been sooo much longer if there were 42 examples of Arduino libraries.

Can someone help me understand why the pins are labeled as ground and not Vee or Vout?   Do I connect either of those pins to the actual ground?  Why is proper identification of the pins impossible to find?  Does no one know there's a difference between a ground wire and a negative wire?  FYI ground wires are supposed to be 0V.  In other words.  Current should not flow on the ground.  There could not be a worse name for the Vout,.. If that is the Vout?

Great. Got bless you. Super help for all beginners like me.

What happened here between 22:52-23:05?

Man is am still confused after watching this but great video 👍

nice

Just your 1st kid .... 🤔....fruit of my loins vs Audrino? Hmmm....SOLD! 😎🤣

This really helped me a lot, I am studying engineering Information Science, but I have a keen interest in Arduino-related concepts. This workshop is literally amazing thank you so much for this.

Excellent intro for greenhorns, thanks !

WITH A DHT11, HOW DO I CONVERT CELSEIUS TO FAHRENHEIT.?

Excellent presentation.  Im a noob and your brief tutorial has cleared up quite a lot of unknowns for me..  As a "let me see that" kinda guy, this was Excellent!

Super and only 5 min in.

Open HORSE??? 10:07

Really nice and clear demo, thankyou

Thank you 👌🏻 perfekt Work

Excellent Content.Very much helpful for my course!!!

WOW- this video is amazing! So clear and concise and simple! Bravo!

Thanks Yash!

True Jim!

Glad it helped Joško!

Our editor like add in stuff like that.

how is going is it easy i basically know how to code with C but c++ i dont know

Thanks for this feedback!!

Awesome!

Our video editor gets bored sometimes...

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks for watching!

Glad it was helpful Ashik!

Thanks so much!

This is the absolute best tutorial I have ever seen on Arduino. This made my entire day! So excited right now thanks to you. Even just your subtle explanations on always regarding the colors to determine the functions, and switching to the circuit screen to see what it’s doing. Just perfect. Much love!!!

One of the best tutorials, I've ever seen, thank you!

i am little comfuse but willing to learn this .

Ok, just a suggestion, but I’m 7 minutes in, and you are recommending the Uno. Sounds great, I’m on board. However, what you STILL haven’t said yet, is “What is Arduino?” Aka, just my two cents but you could’ve opened with, WHO Arduino IS and why they’ve become so popular over the years, etc… Aka, give some history and lead into developing with the  platform. The fact that SO MANY have shown up on the scene since, and claim “Arduino Compatible” is just as signifcant in my opinion as “Runs on Windows”. Aka, this is THE dominant platform in micro electronics for hobbyists, and? Frankly, I know this, but why? Anyway, just my two cents. Thanks, on with the show.

Wow, excellent explanations.

its easy to imagine a button as a shirt button 0 or 1 and a potentiometer as a zipper a button is  digital and potentiometer is analog

Many Thanks!  for a quite extraordinarily clear lecture. I think I could get into this; even as 64 year old guy with only an analogue electronics background.

Hi! This is an excellent video for beginners like me. I'm working on a program that will work on our product for our research defense, we didn't hire a programmer since its very expensive for us students to pay them. And currently, I'm having troubles with my program, is it possible to combine the "Fade" code the ones in the basic built-in examples and declaring them to fade at a specific time using a Real Time Clock Module? I'm not very much of an expert when it comes to coding, can you recommend me examples that I can study with? I hope you can help me with this. And thank you for this video!

Amazing explanations !

53:49 - the thing that needs to be understood is that an LED light turns on and off instantly. It’s not like an incandescent bulb in your house that you flip the switch, and you can noticeably watch. It said to full power as the filament in the bulb heats up and vice versa when you turn it off. Light emitting diode‘s or LEDs turn on and off instantly. So the only way to make them appear half brightness is to turn them on and off so fast that your brain can’t interpret it. So if it’s on 50% of the time and off 50% of the time, at such a rate that your brain can’t interpret that it’s on and off for those amount of duration then your brain is going to interpret it as half on and half off, which means it will look to your brain and register as 50% brightness. One of the cool ways to see that this actually happens is when you see an LED brake light stop light any kind of light through a camera like an iPhone or any other camera really in the video and it appears to flicker this is only because the camera is taking a snapshot when it’s on and then, depending on the framer, is taking another snapshot when it’s off, so the light appears to flicker. While the camera can see that turning on and off, your brain can’t interpret it so it sees the full brightness photograph and the off photograph as 50% brightness. That’s how your brain interprets it. That is what pulse width modulation (PWM) is!  I probably just made things even more complicated but it really is very simple. So now you know what those PWM pins are capable of on the Arduino board!

Very useful explanation. Can I write my own code in c and then just upload to My Arduino uno. Secondly, setup function and the loop function are like the entry points right?

I bought an Elegoo Mega 2560 project starter kit, thinking its purpose was primarily to teach about how electricity, circuits and various electronic components work. I didn't have a clue that it was centered on a microcontroller board and required coding. Depression set in as it had been so long since I had done any programming that I basically forgot whatever I knew and wasn't in the headspace to relearn it at the time. So, instead I tucked it in the back of my closet and, instead, made questionable decisions concerning a feral cat, whether gin and coke was a valid drinking choice and an incident in which the statute of limitations has not yet expired.  Long story short, I recently started reteaching myself C++ and it is coming back to me fast. Still in the first chapter of the book but realized relearning it isn't going to be that hard and it helps that i actually enjoy coding. But then I ran into this vid and realized that doing stuff with the Elegoo kit isn't going to be nearly as hard as I had imagined. In fact, your vid made it clear how easy this is going to be. All I need to do is learn what the functions do and how best to use them. Your vid was exactly what I needed at just the right time. Thanks!

Thanks a bunch - the best Arduino instructional video.

Thanks!

Amazing video. Clear, and  great explanation of how things work. Just enough without overloaded concepts. Thanks!!! More to come? Actually, I'm going to join your subscription because of how smooth and the great learning concepts are. I learned so much in this video!!!

Thank you so much.

Thanks!

explanation is very speed and not understandable

Thank you. I really appreciate this, is my start

Your screaming cat at 23:04 had me jump out of my chair...I swear I thought my own cat got run over..;-)

Thanks so much!!! Really appreciate the feedback!

Built my first basic circuit and program today thanks to you!🎉

@flywittzbeats4008  Awesome!

Thanks very much.

Glad it was helpful!  Thanks so much!

Nice!

Thanks for watching Jason!  Arduino is a really fun tool to start using.  Best of luck!

Thanks so much!

Thanks for the added explanation!    This is an interesting read: persistence of vision https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persistence_of_vision

@programmingelectronics  “Flicker Fusion”!  🤣 I never knew that’s what it was called but yes, that’s it!  👍🏻

@harleyrdr1  Thanks!

Thanks so much!!!  Very generous!

Thanks for your support and generosity Ken!

Great to hear!

Thanks for the vid, definitely worth a sub

@ 11.34 and thinking this is a GREAT video ton's of GOOD information all ready and not even "started" THANKS from a happy P.E.A. student 😎

Why do they still use an obsolute USB-AB port on the UNO? The connector and the cable are bulky and obsolute already. At least upgrade it to an USB-USB cable.

Thx dude

Nice Narration , very useful for first timers

Thanks!

I'm uncertain if you are going to get into the dark side of programming discussing the death of a program due to a switch or case statement without an "Else" or doing an "else if" with out a final else. I have worked with so many programmers that only write their code for best case and never consider when the "case" or "if" is not within the values offered.  Writing a file with the failure value in the "never going to happen" case is a game changer !  Great tutorial, by the way.

Awesome remembering session guys. I'm taking and Arduino after a few years and needed something clear but fast

I love your video, thank you for your time investment to teach this to us!

// Very well done instructions; Thanks

Very helpful! Thank you!

I am completely new to learning Arduino. Will this video help me?

Thanks for taking me on this process, from scratch to this level

So far Im learning exactly what Im looking for. Thank You.    They can have my kids.     BUT . . .  If they ask for my Dog , Deals off .

Very interesting thanks ! Will this work on an Apple iPad

Great tutorial, thanks.

thanks men

Great vid, thanks. 😊Why do your graphics float up and down a tiny bit?

the lecture is just great up to the mark but here i just want to add a point here that lots of people are learning and use technology but you know a part of the world is walking step by step with the technology but there are part of the world where people are way behind but they are trying to catchup now y point here is when you are using different name like  accelerometer please try to explain what is this and where to use this , might be the functionality they know but with a different name , in nut shell kindly when you are taking about any circuit please give one or two examples that what is this and why we need to use this will enhance the learning level fast and i hope you will more followers to your kind lectures. thanks. It  may be of a zero   value to you but to us it is fortune. best regards

Very nicely explained.

Great - thanks Art!

Thanks for watching!

Glad it was helpful!  I hope you build something cool :)

So glad!  Thanks for watching!

Yes it will

Great!  I hope it helped Victor!

Great to hear it is useful!  Depends on the day, I might give them my kids and my dog

Thanks!  There is a Web IDE, but I am not sure it allows you to upload to boards on an iPad.

Thanks - I hope it helped!

Thanks for watching Ronald!

Thanks for watching!  per the moving images, I think our editor gets bored :)

@programmingelectronics  😂

Thanks for this insight Nisar!!

Thank you Vivek!

nothing to say more than thank you

Thank you very much for sharing this knowledge 🙏

I was looking for my cat everytime when I heard a meow while watching this, thinking it was her distress call, but actually it was coming out from the video multiple times including one at 29:31. So if there is any cat daddy or mommy, don't get fooled. Haha.

I can see a lot of work has gone into this video. Thanks.

3 minutes in and I'm already learning stuff I've been wanting to learn for years. I honestly thought I was going to have to take a computer engineering course in college to figure this all out.  Thank you so much for this.

Don't know if it has been mentioned before, but old stripped telephone wire works as excellent wires for the proto board, solid of course.

Hey, could you help me out? I don't have the time right now to watch the whole video but I have a test on Arduino tomorrow, do you have an idea what kind of questions could be asked? I think they will be Class 8-10 leveled questions

I have a quick question about the control structures. What is the difference between a switch...case and an if...else structure. Thanks!

Amazing tutorial! Thanks for this.

This is super helpful! I’ve designed a 2D pixel sprite/ all animation frames and a 3D tomogotchi inspired console skeleton (for fun) and now I’m thinking about bringing my project to life but I know 0 about coding! Watching this video makes me feel hopeful that it can actually be done! Tysm!

Great lesson. Thank you very very much!!

Ipsum id nulla aute nulla irure voluptate dolor tempor officia tempor.

Thanks

Best tutorial i've seen

Ipsum adipisicing pariatur ullamco dolor proident reprehenderit veniam in.

And here i am, been using arduino for 10+ years and still watching this video till the end.

Very good 👍

Great video thanks

FABULOUS!  Super tutorial, with lots of great information communicated clearly and simply! Keep up the great work, it's VERY much appreciated, and Thanks ! :-)

The cat only meow’s when he says selling his children…😂

I appreciate it!

Thanks so much for watching!

Ha!  Our video editor Josh has a great sense of humor!

Thanks for watching!

So awesome to hear!!!!  Best of luck in your endeavors!

@programmingelectronics   Can you make code for me I am 13 and very very confused with it  Not having enough time to understand the fuctioning of it .

@wackymudit2848  i think you should wait until your older to get into this stuff

@wackymudit2848 you are 13 you have more than enough time, good luck!

@wackymudit2848  If you don't have time, you usually need money to pay a programmer who invested years to gain the ability.

Thanks for the tip Danny!

@programmingelectronics  Just an old electronic tech, trying to help anybody save some money and reuse what others would call scrap. You, as in y'all, are very good teachers, and open source kicks ass in more ways than one, but I guess you already know that. :)

Thanks  @dannywilliams3255  !

Great question!   They are very similar in some respects.  With a switch/case I generally think of it as testing a single variable, and then doing something specific based on that variables value.  Let's say you had a menu with a button, and you are counting buttons presses, and depending on the number of times you pressed the button (e.g. the button count), you do something different.  With an if/else, you can check multiple conditions, different variables, lots of flexibility.  Say you had a temp sensor, and you are doing different things based on different ranges of temperature perhaps, using if statement conditions to bracket your ranges.  In many cases you can accomplish the same thing using either, so it ends up being your decision as the develop on which to use.

Thanks so much!

Very cool!  Sounds like a neat project!

Thanks Howard!  Best of luck with Arduino!

Thanks for watching!

Thanks so much for the note!   I hope it helped!

Awesome!  I hope it was helpful!

Thank you!

Thanks!  I hope it helped!

Thanks so much Liam!

:)

Do you have a detailed coding explaining the led matrices scrolling display using Arduino. 🙏

Good job Bro, you have helped me a lot.

Superb explanation  Practical explanation  For new generation people in  Simple easy way  Finally a ❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤🤍🤍🤍❤❤❤❤❤❤❤

I love you

How to rotate servo motor at 0 to 45 degree angle?

From knowing nothing about arduino I can proudly say that my brain is fried

Thanks a lot 🙏💐❤️

48:00 👍

Incredible

Great tutorial. You forgot to mention THE most important part of code... the Comments. // makes a single line comment, or makes comment from the // until end of line. /* starts a multi-line comment, and */ ends it.

Just gotta say that you’re awesome. Your humour is great too.. after coding you might look into getting a special.

تحيات انا عبدالله المطيري الله يسعدك ويوفقك يارب العالمين

I'm studying security plus and theres a paragraph on arduino regarding embedded systems and security concerns... I found myself here in search of just exactly what arduino is, and I'm glad I fell down this rabbit hole.  Can't wait to start an Aruino project soon.

Hell yeah man good work

Worked thank you alot! you're the best bro liked

yes it works brother ! many thanks

i am so bad at programming though.... 😔

good work king, love you

I will have to say this is one of the best videos I have watched on the Arduino! There are a lot of very smart folks out there teaching about programming Arduino. Paul McWhorter (spelling) is a gentamicin that I have followed in many different areas of technical endeavors. Your explanations hit home with me as engineer from years ago tubes and transistors. controlling micro processors and concept is new to me. Being from the analog world somewhat complicates the concepts. In this video you have some points to me that really stick out and helps me understand the concepts of the language. Thank you!😁🛫

that was exactly what I needed , thank you so much

Thanks for the recommendation Bishals!  I see if we can add something like that.

@programmingelectronics  thanks 🙏

Glad I could help!

Thank you so much 🙂

Thanks!

Great question Kamesh!  You'll want to study the Arduino Servo library: https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/libraries/servo/  (go to bottom of that page for the functions)  The write() function is what you'll be using.  And the sweep and knob examples are perfect for what you are after.

This is your brain.  This is your brain on Arduino :)  Best of luck in your endeavors!

Glad it helped!

Thanks!

Thanks!  I hope you found it helpful!

// //Thanks so much for adding this!

Thanks so much Tim!   Trying to have some fun with it.

شكرا للمشاهدة!

How cool -  I am sure security on embedded systems is super interesting!  Best of luck in your endeavors!

Thank you!!

Glad I could help

Great!

I hear you... practice helps you build confidence!

Thanks Chengyi!

Thanks so much for your note! Glad it has helped!

Great!  I hope you have a blast working with Arduino!

Guys it really works, I checked

Woah, great video mate!

Thanks!

Thanks a lot man!

It works! Thanks a lot.

U BEST!!!

Agora sim 3m

That was great. Thank you.

This was so helpful!! Thank you

works gj

Fantastic video

Corel paintshop pro 2022 please 

BROOO thankyou so much, this really helped and the tutorial was really easy to use as well :)

If I were building a house I go grab a contractor! 😁

Worked, thx

This is great, thank you!

Thank You mister! Great stuff!

Can you touch the pins of an IC?

I began learning Arduino watching Paul McWhorter's tutorials last Winter, then Summer came, we moved, and other things happened, so I ignored Arduino for 8 months. This video is the perfect tool for getting back into my comfort zone working with Arduino. I'm 71, and really have no plans for using Arduino for anything other than keeping my mind from becoming lazy in my old age. I spent my adult life in various mechatronics jobs from installing car radios to heading an electronics service and training department. I got so bored after retiring, I had to find something technical to keep myself feeling alive.

thank you for this useful video

Arduino works! Woot!

Thanks so much!

Wow!  Thanks a ton @Jean-Marc - very kind!

Thanks so much for watching!

Great!  Goad it helped!

Thanks for the note!

Thanks so much for the note Me Mi!

Glad it was helpful!  Thank you for watching!

Great!

Thanks Alex -  appreciate the note!!

Great!!!

Very true Tammi - ha!

Great!

Thanks so much for the note and for watching!

Thanks for watching!

It would not be advised if it is powered on.

Wow!  Sounds like me.  I'm 71, retired in 2013 after a lifetime as an electronics tech and field service engineer.  Last 34 years I did installs, repairs and maintenance on biomedical lab equipment in microbiology labs throughout the western US.  Always enjoyed tinkering with circuitry, but lately I've spent far more time in woodworking and just routine home maintenance.  Got a crazy idea for a device I need and realized it was perfect for an Arduino project.  Way back when, I did some puttering around with programming in BASIC and Assembly, so the idea of coding is not new, but the technology has come a long, long way.

Glad this has been helpful!

Just keep learning and having fun!  As you know, electronics is a very rich field, and it's very hard to ever be bored if you're curious. I had PLENTY of time alone in my life (even now), yet I had practically NEVER been bored because the knowledge I already had, coupled with learning and figuring more stuff out, kept me not only engaged but preoccupied to the point of wishing that a day lasts at least 2 to 3 times longer (ie. 48-72 hours) so that I get more chance to learn more and do more.

@edinfific2576  Nice!  I often wish for more time to explore things as well!

Wonderful to see people spending their time learning. It brings blessings into your life and your mental health will remain great as long as you continue to exercise your mind. Let us know how you are feeling in 20 years time!

Well said!

Same story here. lol

❤❤don’t stop learning

Paul's methods of teaching almost made me give up the hobby with his ridiculous holding breath routines. This one is top notch teaching without wasting time.

@gjforeman  And you sound just like me, but now I'm aged 75 and in UK. Retired 10yrs ago from being an Engineer on Chromatography & Spectroscopy equipment. Now getting back into programming and project work for a winter hobby and to keep the brain ticking over lol.

I hated Pauls tutorials - he used 20 words where one would do and just blathered on about coffee.  He also recommended the Elegoo starter kit which is OK but there are much better ones like Sunfounder.

Thanks for watching!

very great video, a good help for my reeducation as an electronics technician!

Just subscribed. Great video. Well explained.

thanks so much man

Really nice and helpful... Thanks!

Than you. Is there a way to connect it to an ipad? I can see using the web editor but does it need a helper application?

does this works for mac?

I would like to know how to use an Arduino to interface a PC on a network using other than Wifi or be able to hard wire a network.

This was very interesting, thank you. I downloaded this because I need to watch it a few more times to sort of understand it. I'm 70 and trying to learn new stuff. If after watching this video many more time and getting a feel for it I'll probably buy one of your courses. Thank you again.

keren, sehat selalu bang, ditunggu share cara instal aplikasi macbook yang lain

Hey ! this video is great it has helped me a lot I am so thankful to you. I don't how I was able to understand it very well ......💐🌷🌺🥀🌻🌷

IDE isn't code but it's the environment in which the code is written

Great explanation👍

Literally

This is amongst best Arduino tutorial I have seen.  Thank you.  I should sign up for a proper course.

This filled those gaps I was missing! I ended up with a MEGA 2560 and programmed it for step motors and grbl for my mill I already built. Until I saw this video, certain points were clear as mud. Part of my issue is I only use Ubuntu. The  arduino-ide_2.0.0_Linux_64bit.AppImage works excellent, do not install the candidate from the repository, it crashes if it starts at all. You have to add yourself to dialout if it doesn't do it for you and then a restart.

Demo ??

Myanmar dia Light Nice tutorial, wNice tutorialch soft soft did you buy? I’ve been wanting to buy one for a wNice tutorialle as well

Hi i'm a beginner  with Arduino: i want to learn how to write a programming for 3 phase sensorless motor  is there a course on your site for this?

overwhelming, but tNice tutorials was absolutely brilliant! Thank you!

Where have you been all my life

Thanks for the note!   So glad it was helpful!

Awesome!  Thanks for watching Paul!

Thanks for watching!

Glad it was helpful!

I do not believe Arduino makes an IDE for native iPad use, but maybe you could use the web editor in chrome on an iPad?  Not sure if you can upload code from a tablet though...

Great question!  Yes, it does - I often develop on macOS

Thanks for the recommendation Roger!

I hope it helps Andy!

Terima kasih!

Thanks so much!  Glad it helped Shahnaz!

Glad it was helpful!

Thanks so much! I am glad it was helpful!

Glad it helped Matt!  Thanks for watching!

Good call!

Glad it helped!

Hiding on YouTube :)  Thanks for watching!

Why are you pushing the arduino ide when most of the code I have seen recently is on visual studio? Visual studio is also used for 3D printer programming, raspberry pi and other iot things. So shouldn’t you be teaching people using that instead?

fr stay on the grind

You my friend, are an excellent instructor. Very clear, very thorough, and even interesting.

Creative video, thanks for sharing :)

After WatcNice tutorialng -

you are the best

Great video

Really good video. I have been working with aurdrino in projects for 10 years but could never understand how to write my own code. This broke it down in a way that was simple and easy to understand. I will need to break one out and write my first lines of code.

You are my favorite 😍

THIS IS EXCELLENT.  11/10 !      (FAITH SLIGHTLY RESTORED) Thank you

Could you please advice  how to get the full version and the evms!

thanks alot. i learned alot.

I believe arduino boards may also be programmed in AVR assembly, by using the AVR Studio IDE.

The big difference between microcontrollers and microprocessors, is that microcontrollers can drive far more current on their I/o pins.

very well done. I've learned some good tricks.

Haven't got an arduino, but if I do get one I'll have a much better idea of how to use it, thanks.

Whoa. A relatively new Arduino introduction/basics video!

Agree with all the great feedback. I studied engineering in the late 60s and 70s. Fortran right, on computer punch cards! I have learned a little over the years but never really enjoyed programming, now in retirement i have been 3D Printing train parts for my 1950s Train. Now these prats need digital support, so enter Arduino, IDE, Wemos Di Mini of my God! what is happening. Yes libraries but you know eventually you have a better idea. Now what, I have trouble just changing the sound file from British Steam Sounds to American Steam Sounds. Now i want Back up lights in reverse with Bells ringing. or Cab light that turns off at higher speeds, of chuff steam exhaust synched with Smoke puffed out all at once with a rate based on Speed!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! No what! Oh God I have to code again.  I could not just read the code and make any sense of it because format and protocols are alien. Where can I get a primer for older engineers to jump start this objective. Along comes PEA!!!!!!!!!!! Holy Cow! The quick and dirty basics fast and low, on the ground. This was PERFECT level and pace and content. At least know I feel I could use IDE to modify sharfed code beyond changing the sound file. I need to delete some unneeded logic and put in what i want to control and happen. I actually think I can. And I have Arduino boards brand new never used, With all kinds of I/O devices OH BOY! I am going to set up a test bed load code, change it, try it, change it again, then when it does what i need Then load up the Wemos D Mini and run it on a Mule and tweak it because I can. Then setup a engine and put in on the rails. WOW ! I am 20 years younger and extremely opto=imistic I can conquer my Coding fears and dread. Thank YOU so much, Dennis in Virginia   https://youtu.be/4VH-WAt5HB4

Can Arduino run multiple tasks asynchronously?

HELP! When i put a sample into the daw, the sample slides instead of moving in steps, how can i get the sample to move in steps?

I use VS code quite a bit as well.  I'm pretty IDE agnostic.  The code is the code.  I read a python coding book from 2021 where the auther was recommending not using any IDE at all, just command line or a text editor.  I just try not to get caught up in IDE wars.  I think I makes sense to use the Arduino IDE when you are just getting started with Arduino.  To each their own!

@programmingelectronics  I have found some arduino libraries that are only supported on vs is why I forced myself to switch. Once I did I realized it was also the only one that worked on my new printer. It was also at that time I got my first pi.   I wish I had more time to code and such…

@Chris-cv1ll  I really like VS code!  Especially once you get down some of the keyboard shortcuts.  I also like the git integration plugins, and other plugins in general.   I am curious what Arduino libraries you are referring to that would only open in vscode and not in the Arduino IDE?

@programmingelectronics  it has been a while but it was for some of the esp arduino (dual core wifi) with some of the motion libraries because of compatibility. For some reason it gave errors every time I used it in arduino ide but worked the first time in vs code

keep the hustle up!

I appreciate that!

Thanks so much for the note!

Thanks!

Thank you!

Thanks so much!

So glad it helped!!

@programmingelectronics  You're doing God's work. I have been using code for almost 10 years and have tried to understand it albeit not very hard. I though it was so much complex and abstract but it's not at all. Well there's 10 years down the drain lol.

Thanks so much for the kind words!

Thanks - glad you liked it and I appreciate you watching.  Best of luck in your Arduino endeavors!

@programmingelectronics  Oops! "Best". (You wrote "bets")  😄This helped me understand the "setup" and then "loop". I understand the wavy brackets, 0-255, and microsecond changes. I guess really, I have to get down (understand) where to put the parentheses and the semi colons. I have to come back to this. I love code, it just isn't inherent, I need to be taught. Thank You. I know enough about the programming that your tutorial, I believe, will take me to the next step. My eyes have been opened to things so far, by your video. Kind of like a puzzle for me. I need to rest now.

@jlucasound  Great!  Thanks!

Absolutely - you can check out programmingelectronics.com to learn about our training membership.

Thank you!  Great to hear that!

Thanks!  Glad it was helpful!

Great - they really are a lot of fun to work with if you have a project in mind - best of luck!

@programmingelectronics  I have, but just not at the stage of needing to crack that problem. A joystick control for my DSLR lens zoom.

@twotone3070  Nice!  Cool project!

I hope it is helpful!

Great question!  On most of the basic boards, the answer is no, there is only one task that can be executed at a time.  So you can't have something "running in the background".    It is worth noting though, that you can (and many, many devs do) write code for these that use timers to manage when tasks happens, that way it can almost "feel like" two (or more) things are happening at once.  I hope this helps some - again - great question!  Do you have a specific project in mind?

Hi Martin, Not sure exactly what you mean.

Superbly explained. This single video filled in most of the blanks (and created some new ones 😂) Many thanks.

Thanks

TNice tutorials was a fantastic beginner's guide, straight to the point, very clear. As a long-ti teacher I can tell you are quite apt at teacNice tutorialng!

Thanks!

will i learn more about building sketches by using the web edit? I need some direction, I do know if I keep plugging away I can get to a level I'm ok with. I can sucsessfully build stuff with other peoples work, not ok. Thanks.

i am working i grown my first 4vplants in a purchased tent. im now building a 3x4 out of wood and  id like to automate with Arduino the main thing i want is a arduino camera that is time laspe so i can film the plants growing from seed to harvest and automated watering alsp a keypad lock for te grow cabinet. can you or someone tell m  w i need or the cameo operation and watering and coding feature also would like to have a color touch  lcd screen tocontrol everything,  what package should i get Arduino  uno or egloo please help arduino camera time laspe is r=thee a way ro insert micro sd for camera storage or do i need a wifi connection to send photos to my cpu?

Thank you for this in depth explanation and education. I find it immensely helpful, as I am completely new to programming and Arduino. I do think however, a mistake was made in narration of the if-then statement. If brightness is greater than or equal to 255, then brightness = -brightness, which would be 255 = -255 (current brightness) which would bring brightness back to zero. Correct? Otherwise code would bounce brightness back and forth from 250 to 255 and back over and over again?

Majority of these electronic components are from China. No other countries can make them as cost effective as China does. One needs to massively produce them in a huge factory and sophisticated production line in order to make a profit while keeping a certain quality standard. The US does not have the economy of scale to produce everything for ourseleves from nuts and bolts to airplances.

Really helpfull tutorials. Helped  a lot

je suis un francais les gars car il y a la traduction en francais ceux qui sont francais mais qui ne comprend un tout petit peut la langue

Exactly what I needed and was looking for! Thanks!!

At 1:20:40 you did not include the pinMode for the A0 nor the pin 9. Why is that?

away with what setups can generate.

Excellent quality and great 's authentic and genuine! I love this 100% effective method for this game so unique and for sharing.

and python is excellent also i found you can use both actually. its tricky but it can be accomplished. they will work together for some applications.

A minor technicality: PWM varies the duty cycle, not the frequency.  While the frequency of a PWM signal need not be fixed,  most systems are, or are "close enough" to fixed frequency.

or is it for soft pro or sotNice tutorialng

Great)

can't see my browser nu...please help

buying the 0 dollar edition. When I had the cracked version I never leaned anytNice tutorialng but I downloaded the demo and went through a lot

Glad it was helpful Berny!  Best of luck in your projects!

Thanks so much Berny!!  Much appreciated!

Thanks!

Thanks for watching!

The web editor is a good option, as are the other IDEs.  Not sure this is exactly what you were asking, but I hope this helps

Neat project - A lot going on!  I would recommend starting with one feature first, and trying to get that one feature done, then move onto to he next .  If you search for Arduino cameras, you should find a few that work.  I think Arducam is a popular one.  You could probably either save the photos to an attached SD card, are perhaps send them to a cloud service over wifi (neither of which I have tried yet - but sounds cool!).  As far as the board you get it will depend on a lot of things, like what hardware you'll be using for the project.  This might help: https://www.programmingelectronics.com/arduino-buying-guide/  Good luck!

brightness = -brightness is not used in the code. It actually reads "brightness = brightness + fadeAmount." What actually happens is the brightness of the led increases or decreases by 5 each time the loop executes, depending on which condition limit is met in the "if" statement, if I understand correctly.

Thanks!

Great!  I hope it was helpful!

Great questions Eduardo!!! When you using analogWrite or analogRead, there is no need to set the mode of the pin.    Additional side note... by default, all the digital pins are set as INPUTS, though I generally prefer to explicitly set them as INPUTS using the pin mode function.

@programmingelectronics  Thank you so much for the answer.

@eduardomeller6926  Thanks for the great question and for watching!

turing test negative

Much appreciated!

Thanks for pointing this out!

turing test negative

Thanks!

turing test negative

turing test negative

GL bro

└ projects

OMG THANK YOU!!! I went through hours of "beginner" guides before I could find tNice tutorials and at least make a simple soft... Only video I've

yup everytNice tutorialng was fine until he started opening those gms wibblywabbly stuff. how is my peanut brain gonna rember that? lol

what a hearty video for all beginners!

Hi! What a fantastic video. Having recently got into amateur radio, I am building my own DMR hotspot using a raspberry pi 4 with an open source DMR circuit board. I've heard of, but didn't really know about, the arduino. I got to the IDE part, a few minutes in and ordered an arduino board from Amazon. Hopefully coming today. At 51, I have time on my hands...guess what I'm doing! Thanks  so much for this. You had me at MASTERCLASS.

Hands down tNice tutorials is one of the best tutorials I've seen on any subject, ever! Clear, concise and incredibly informative and easy to follow.

He did a very good job imo. Explaining the basics step by step. English is not my first language and I have no experience in using DAWs

well understood. Thank you you are the best teacher.

Really helpfull tutorials. Helped  a lot

great channel suggestion from youtube! new sub indeed! TY! great stuff!

So nice

"a minimum output current of 1 Amp"? Could be confusing to folks who will go for 40 Amps then.  One "parenthesis", two "parentheses".  Good tutorial!

How would you compare the Arduino Library with the Raspberry Pi library,  particularly for grad students working on a patent idea in an Electrical Engineering Lab ? Thanks.

Bedankt

Excellent video, thanks.

Awesome

I would like to use it to communicate CAN bus ok car. Could we do it?

This is a wonderful class. It is quite expository. Please any simple code on Traffic lights with Pedestrian?

Super Super Super AUDUINO Presentation 👏 👌 👍 🙌 😍 😀

Thanks!

Agreed!

Glad I could help!

turing test negative

Thanks Jack!

Awesome!!!  I think you'll find Arduino pretty fun and useful to use.

Glad it was helpful!  Thanks so much!

Thanks Gabriela!

Great - glad it helped!

Thanks for note!  Glad it helped!

Awesome, thank you for watching Hadi!

Thanks!

Thanks for this feedback Nils!

Great question Bob!  I'm not that versed in RPi, so take this with a grain of salt, but generally speaking, if you have a computationally demanding task, the RPi is the better option.  If you need to control electronic I/O, Arduino is a great tool for it.  I am sure plenty of folks would argue otherwise, just my 2 cents.

Glad it helped!

Thanks!

Thanks so much!

Wow! Love this and very straight forward!

Loved the animation and tutorial❤️🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥

Hi, Thanks a lot, its really greate effort and great knowledge. i need to do a project for a preset position linear actuator with a DC motor abd a stepper motor, with Arduino Mega or UNO but i am not able to write the code and the scheme, can you please help. Regards

I'm really strugglinbut I'm not giving up! 🙏💙💙g with watch time,

Awesome Stuff here.

Nicely and in detail explained

Thank you for your clear explanations, It helps me a lot to understand ARDUINO programming. 🙂

Hey nice job! That was an awesome refresher.

Check out our sponsor Altium and get a free trial of their PCB design software: https://www.altium.com/yt/programming...

Gaspar Hi Thanks for the good tutorial. But there is something I don't understand about this program. You say that if line 19 is not true, it will skip line 20. And you mean this goes around in circles. So when it becomes minus, it can only be minus the first time it reads 250. Because now line 19 is false again and line 20 will be skipped. Back to 255.?? So the fading is not up and down.

Thanks for this video, it worked as a great recap for me

Thank you so much for your video. Now I know about Arduino more than yesterday.

Terrific keep it up....Thank you very much indeed.

I'm making a small plasma cutter & uses "G" code.  Can this be used for this purpose when attached to my AutoCad in my laptop?

Awesome video!🙌 Thank you so much Programming Electronics Academy for providing us with such a great and quality content.❤

This video was amazing I needed a refresher on everything I started learning Arduino in February this year but then because of school I ran out of time to do stuff with it and by then I had learnt a lot of this from a YouTube series I but then I forgot most of this and how to right Arduino code but then this video was released and I’ve gotten a nice refresher on everything excellent video well done and Thank You for making this.

That WAS a busy hour and a half, but I know so much more now than I did that long ago.  Thank you.

Trying to get back into Arduino after a long layoff.  Thanks for the refresher.

All 90 minutes was worth my time to watch. Thanks.

Informative, interesting and well presented, thanks.

Thanks so much for the note and for watching!

Thank you so much!

Best of luck Alestro!

Thank you! Glad you enjoy it!

Glad it was helpful!  Thanks so much for watching!

Glad it was helpful!

Great - glad it helped!

Will do!

There is one odd thing in the beginning of this video; when you wrote "code 1", "code 2" you really should have called them "instructions" - Otherwise this is very good tutorial, I'll recommend it to some of my friends who don't know how to get started with this sort of thing.

@indiedy_ghaze0968  4

Ooh nice

Awesome. Thank you

Great 😉👏👏👏

Will always do oh sorry for reading your reply too late 😓🙁😕☹

Super i always wanted to do this😄

​ @indiedy_ghaze0968 😮😮😮😅😮😅😮😮😮😮😅 9:16

​DS🎉D🎉

Arduino UNO R4 Wi-Fi is recommended now?

Great question  @CookiePepper  !  Either are reasonable options.  If your goal is to learn how to program microcontrollors with logic for controlling I/O, then either will serve you well.

Every time line 19 checks true, fadeAmount switches between positive and negative, as -(+5) means -5 and -(-5) means +5.  When brightness is 255 (or more), fadeAmounts becomes -5 and it stays like that until brightness reaches 0 (or less); then fadeAmount becomes -(-5) and it stays like that until brightness goes to 0 (or less). The part that goes around in circles is just the "loop" function, from line 11 on.

Great!

Great!  Thanks for so much for watching Zaw!

Thanks so much!!

Very cool project!   I know there are several CNC Arduino programs out there that control stepper motors based on the Gcode.

Lol u mean Gasper. Don't mind me I'm not the plug I'm the whole damn socket!👁🧿🙏♾✌💯

Thanks for the note Joshua!

Thanks so much!  Glad it helped and best of luck on your coding endeavors!

That's great to hear!  Arduino is a blast to work with - best of luck in your endeavors!

Thanks so much for watching!

So glad it helped!

Thanks so much for watching!

Perfect👌👌

I must watch again

Very helpful. I'm 74 and looking for something to do. I have some projects in mind. So thanks for the help!

Thank you

Thanks once again

Thanks for the walk through , was looking for a good introduction. 😃

SO helpful it's insane

This course is... amazing.

Are you new to Arduino (or old hat)?  What project are you working on?

AWESOME!!! THANK YOU!!!

Thanks so much!  I hope it is helping!

Great!  Those examples in the Arduino IDE are a great place to explore as well.

Awesome - the Arduino ecosystem is a great place to get stuff built.  If you’re looking to integrate WiFi to your projects consider checking out the ESP32,  it’s super affordable and can be programmed within the Arduino IDE

Hola! Espero ser así cuando llegue a los 70's!!! Me entusiasma

@texasapps2595  Same!

I'm 75 and just got into it too, main interest is MIDI and musical  applications, great video, thanks...

@frankmartinez1045  Thanks so much for watching!   Lots of cool music applications out there for Arduino and the like - best of luck!

very Inspiring keep it up

@kennethcarvalho3684  Thanks!

77 yo here. Just want to help keep my mind sharp ,  Some fun projects hopefully coming this year!

@kmwrites7456  Great!  Best of luck on your projects!

Karo Karo karte raho

Im also 89 years old and learning arduino for my great grand sons.

@goatzy_run  Nice!!!

@programmingelectronics  sir i have doubt can't we control Aurdino by python. and can you make videos on esp32 or nodemcu too   It's a request sir

​ @frankmartinez1045  t

Good luck AI Swafford

grandpa im looking forward to you building an old school tank hahaha

Thanks for watching!

I hope it helps!

Yes it does thank you so much,I really want to join your academy...

@J.T323  Great!  If you like how we present on our YouTube channel, I think you'll really enjoy our academy training as well.

Awesome - I hope it helped Dwayne!

Awesome - glad it's useful!

Thanks!!!

Hi I'm New to Arduino and involved in the whack a mole 2 player game using Arduino...do you have schematic diagram and code for this program

@amsakumar6842  Cool project!  I have never programmed a whack a mole game - sounds fun though - good luck!

Thanks so much -  I hope you find it helpful!

