Of course, this is not meant to be a complete tutorial, I just wanted to present all the terms and some knowledge so that you know how to start learning. Check out my other videos about robots! Have a nice day :)

Nice, now i have a robot thats literally gonna kill me 24/7

this is not shit this is MOTHERFUCKING ART

can you do tutorial on how to build humanoid robot army?

Awesome tutorial thanks!

CAN YOU DO IT FOR

SLOW DOWN

Instructions unclear I accidentally built an android that built a atomic bomb.

0:40

Wait how would u able to connect ur robot to the pc I know u post to use usb I mean the  robot plug hole usb what do use though

Such a waste video

At 12:00 I started my robot building project . At 12:02 I gave up having already used twice the estimated time on the project, and almost none of the building done and the programming not even started.

fajnie ja swojego robota robie juz 1 TYDZIEN

Should I learn "C" or "C++" for Arduino? (at the first)

Naprawdę ciekawy film😉 Było trudno zmieścić się w 1 minucie? Pozdrawiam

That was fast;) dzięki za fajny filmik.

Excellent project

why? just why?

yeah

Klaasss

Can you please put a list of the supplies and links to them

C

Would be nice to see another livestream soon! Nice and simple video, like it.

"...C++, that means it's easy to learn" never heard a better joke :D

Short, quick, and sweet!  Nice overview.  Nice to see you're still active-- I haven't been getting notifications; I'll have to look into that.  Be safe and well.

I watched your video, built a robot, and it keeps asking me questions about how to kill humans. Should I be concerned?

Short and rich in content. Nice!

Maybe a little fast 😆

Of course, this is not meant to be a complete tutorial, I just wanted to present all the terms and some knowledge so that you know how to start learning. Check out my other videos about robots! Have a nice day :)

Second

cool

For basic programs on Arduino C++ is realy not that hard. For me it was quite easy as a first language.

@pawel4066  Which absolutely only applies to a basic project where you let blink some LEDs. Once you start to build something more complex you will very quickly reach the point where you need deep knowledge for basic concepts such as pointer, OO, stack handling and so on. Don't get me wrong, i love c++ and it is perfect for working with microcontrollers for a ton of reasons, however i have been working as a software developer for over 10 years. And exactly this is the reason why i know that c++ is not beginner friendly at all.  I think an esp8266 using LUA, especially for younger users, is way more comfortable to beginn with.

@SteakIsYummy  you don’t need to know OOP or pointers, if you don’t want to use either of them.  The problem is when you don’t use them you don’t make optimal use of the C/C++ languages. Personally I found C and later C++ so simple and fun to use. But that’s us 80s kids worked with assembler on a C64 and 8086 and then having a compiler with all these standard things you’d otherwise slave over to program was a godsend. And when you know assembler well, then C makes sense and when you understand OO paradigm and already have an assembler and or C background that makes it easy. I still don’t use many of the C++14 and C++17 nifty auto typing and smart pointers. I’m so used to think in memory addresses and cleaning up after myself that it has no benefit really. But I’ve been coding for 35 years.

@rdoetjes  I totally agree with you, however the point is something different. "...if you don't want to use either" only applies if you know what they are and as a beginner you simply don't.  Take a stepper motor as an example. To control a nema17 as a beginner you rely on any kind of lib which probably comes with a class needed to be instantiated per motor.  To actually know as a beginner what you are doing, you need to understand the OO concept. Otherwise you will simply fail to embed a second nema17.  Or even better, let a beginner declare an instance of same stepper class within the setup method, just because he overlooked it. He most likely will search until eternity why he cannot use it in loop.  C++ has so unbelievable many stumbling blocks, which definatly don't need to be there if you basically just started programming.

It is easy actually.

Yes

Like this video and see if that helps.

Turn it off, turn it off!!

@nikodembartnik  I tried, but it won't turn off.   Can you do a video on how to disassemble a self-aware robot?

Robona 😂

Unlike polish education :) Thanks dude!

Maybe, but I wanted to challenge my self and stick to one minute :)

@nikodembartnik  Try in 2 minutes. It will be more comfortable for you and us 😉

Can you please put a list of the supplies and links to them

