Thank you very much, I am just studying Operational Amplifiers, I will do it and understand more about the component. you're great!!

Im confused how the bot knows what to do without a micro computer

10:47 YES, PLEASE DO MAKE A SERIES

Hl max qje tal disculpa queria saber si me podrias ayudar tengo un control de drom pero no tengo el reseptor queria saber como ago uno para resplazarlo ya que se me perdio quiero aserlo con arduino

Great work🎉🎉  I will DO  this project now❤❤❤

this is like Mo from Wall-E

Man vs wild ❌ Man vs electronics ✅

Reminded me of our university days, 18 years ago.

"Hey hon, look at this cool robot I built!" - "Oh neat! By the way, how come the computer doesn't turn on, and the TV remote doesn't work?  Wth?  I'm missing two buttons on my shirt, and the tip of my favorite pen is gone too?!  No more projects for you!"

Please give circuit diagram

why did you chose the components you did

Awesome!

Amazing vid

Nice bro...i have some of these components and iwant to try too...

The video quality has improved a lot. Honestly, I haven’t seen this channel for years 🥹

How to connect all the components and solter it…like which component is connected to which …!!

That was really impressive! And using zipties with a perfboard like that was pretty clever. But gosh the editing of the intro felt weird

yeaa 100k,congralutions

What solder iron used type

loved this video but would’ve appreciated a bit of explaining for what the components are doing

Glad to hear that! Happy making!

It uses a comparator chip based on what's called an op-amp for the left/right decision making. Op-amp comparators - Look them up.

Will consider it, cheers!

Hi there. A new video is coming soon on how to make your own Arduino drone that is fully Arduino-based. That may help you. Stay tuned!

Thanks! Have fun!

Harsh realities of living with a "maker" 🤣

Linked in the description!

That way one can actually understand the workings of a simple line follower without mindlessly copy-pasting code for an arduino robot.  It's cheaper too this way for others.

@MaxImagination  i meant why did you chose the specific resistor values and the opamp, whats the engineering behind those choices

That could take a whole video to explain.  But to cut it short, I chose the op amp for its comparative circuit, the op amp to effectively control the motors via transistors, and resistors to set appropriate voltage drops for each component in the circuit to do its job.

@MaxImagination  ah ok ok just wanted to confirm whether it was a comparator or not

Thank you! Cheers!

Glad you enjoyed it. Thanks!

Great, I'm sure you can make it too. Best of luck! 👍🏻

Follow the diagram and real-life wiring reference image.

Thanks for your feedback. What part about the intro was it you found unusual?

Thanks for your support!

@MaxImagination  will there be any special

TS101 smart soldering iron.

Sure, you can learn about how they function to make the robot work here: https://www.elektormagazine.com/labs/make-the-tiniest-line-follower-robot-without-a-microcontroller-1

Can you make a tiny maze solver like this if yes what sensors you will use

I love it. Please make more videos on how to recycle use old junk to make simple robots.

hey max please make an am radio pleaseee.....

Yes we want pcb robots

Great project!! The bot detects the difference between light and dark and correspondingly activates the motors but if both ldr are on white / black how does the opamp compare and subsequently send the logic to run both motors?

<solder as a structural component3

Saw a kit for this on AliExpress for $1.60 so was wondering how well it would work looks like they took your design

I like it ❤😂

Doesn't it need any programming the robot ??

I reckon you can simplify it down even further to just a single Op-Amp if you have it continuously running and have the op-amp push down a pin into the ground that allows the robot to turn around it to the left. Then when the pin is up, the robot will naturally swerve to the right. That way, the single op amp can be used as a switch.

If your micro supports it you could also use a pwm generator and capacitor to smooth the output to lower the average voltage by changing duty cycle

It isn't the tiniest except if you mean the tiniest homemade. I have 2 Evo ozzobots at home and they follow lines and are smaller but ofc not homemade. And I am not saying that it isn't impressive BC it is impressive.

Very very very nice men

Masterful explanation 🇲🇺🇲🇺

This is some impressive soldering...

I would like to add here.... With line detectors placed in the same axis as the front steering wheels (an additional pair here) {just as steering wheels are in present day multi- wheel system's} ,is really ideal... Also if the steering control is tweaked to output a behaviour as in "ACKERMANN STEERING SYSTEM's" or improvements in that..,then you have really nailed it. F.Y.I. ..ACKERMANN STEERING is the basis for all multi- axle vehicles..where the circle insribed by the turn of inner & outer wheels have the same center of their radaii & is always the midpont of the of the rear axis rear wheel dive pair.

Really simplest design .. good for newcomers & beginners.. getting into it.. Here are some few points that you may consider in future attempts... The single led & ldr.., one for each side and the comparator mode of operation.. permits only a TWO LEVEL(binary/2 bit) control. With 2 per side , and the second pair , placed behind (or front) and slightly left/ (or right) of the first , will give a narrower band( configured like a hysteresis window) for each wheel.. Now you can get a minimum 4 bit logic resolution.. With additional combinational & sequential logic.. more permutation/ combinations properly worked out , can make it a more robust controller.. bear in mind this is just a " look down" decision controller.., and  not a " look ahead" one.. In both cases.. the detect sensors  & driven wheels are at extreme opposite ends .. Best would be to have idler wheels (turning L/R) controlled  by this and rear  wheels drive by some other circuit . Happy Tracking.. 😅

Hey buddy can  I program arduino with coding using my android phone

u Can use a 555 IC to convert DC motor control voltage to 100 Hz pulse width modulated full battery potential for low rpm with high torque (instead of geared motor option).

Good job ngl

Possibly, but I do not promise anything. Another viewer recently mentioned that adding more LRD sensors out to the sides in parallel would allow this robot to continue following lines and staying on track at a high speed.

Will keep that in mind!

Hey! I'll keep that in mind for a potential future video!

Thanks! If both sensors receive the same amount of light, the opamp makes the robot veer at random until it rolls over a contrasting color surface to continue differentiating.

I actually took inspiration from one of those robots back in time, but made mine a lot smaller and more agile.

Like I mentioned in the video, no programming nor any microcontroller required. Only a simple comparator circuit.

May work, but not with higher current devices like the motors.

There is no microcontroller used here...

From looking at what's out there online, it is by far the tiniest homemade one without utilizing a microcontroller, yes. Never heard of those ozzobots before, they look cool... Thanks for your comment!

@MaxImagination  Yes, I am pretty sure that it is in fact the smallest homemade and without micro controller and I do find it very impressive. And it is WAY cheaper than an ozzobot. And btw the ozzobots are cool BC they can do all sorts of fun stuff and they make funny sounds.

Thank you, Davey!

@MaxImagination  if you wanted I can make a video on my channel hou you kan turn this to a custom PCB.

I appreciate that!

Thanks for your tip. Ackermann Steering could work well if this robot were made into a robot car and had further technical adjustments made to improve its tracking abilities. Cheers!

Hi there. Thanks for your comment and tips!

Hey there. This project does not require programming, but if you are asking this as a general question, then yes. Use ArduinoDroid - https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=name.antonsmirnov.android.arduinodroid2&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1

Thanks buddy

@MaxImagination  hey buddy I love this  channel  from India 🇮🇳 I support

Thanks for watching!

Hi, yes it is possible and probably smarter to do if you cannot find a similar-sized geared motor.

How does one co-relate the line sensor/s position feedback to the pwm control ?

Cheers

love it

Nice quick & simple basic tracker built & functional..... Its a simple dual " bang- bang" controller.... IMHO there are some minor improvements / circuit changes that could better its preformance.. 1) The single cable tie (clamper) on each motor cannot prevent motor pivoting during bang on / bang off....atleast use two ties..spaced further apart... 2) The LDR's should be moved closer to center of axis....it will reduce the off tracking error correction span. 3)  Each LDR/& respective led must be gated/pulsed alternately to avoid each others  light interfering on other sensor.....this means more electronics/ logic ckt.additions....😢 4) LDR axis & motors shaft axis..must be parallel to each other..... 5) try to obtain/make really well centered wheels.... 6) Wheels must be equidistant from pcb longitudinal axis centre.. 7) Wheels fitted with slightly tapered width..,with the smaller diameter on the outside ..will allow for natural correction to move in a straightline without " drifting " left or right on its own....... These are some mech. insghts I could offer..😅..wish you for best next attempt.

Nice video! I am very interested in DIY projects that are very small and can fit in the palm! I would really appreciate more of these types of tiny-sized projects!

Yes, Please!

can you make a mini maze solver like this

I couldn’t understand the li po battery connections can you show them? , also can we use 3mm red led instead of IR led?

يبدو انه تتبع فقط مسار دائري لا فائدة  من المقارنة .لذلك يمكن توجيه العجلات دائريا دون دائرة الكترونية 😊

🔥🔥🔥🔥

Bro you haven't added where too add diodes in circute diagram please mention where to add diode in circute diagram

Хорошая работа друг 😊

Sorry for being late! Great project

The no coding part is what makes it so difficult

Perfect electronic work ❤👏👏👏

Can you make a detailed video explaining the schematic you shared ? basically the circuit design procedure.

Nice job smart.

I designed and built one of these (similar though larger) 60+ years ago using a total of FIVE (5) parts!  2 x CdS photoresistors,  2 X small DC motors, 1 X battery. Called it a robot Rat. It would turn to and run toward a flashlight.   adding 2 X light sources and 2 lenses would make it a line follower! Mike L. "First MIKE on the internet - ca. 1975"

Bro the circuit diagram is wrong can you give this in fig format for easy understand, and the circuit is wrong with the op amp also

Hi, I need help I have 808nm 200mw laser diode but I don't know how to make driver circuit board for this laser diode.can you please give me tutorial or circuit diagram for this laser diode working properly.

Super ❤ bro

That is one cute little robot there! Once I get some op-amps i'll definitely build one of my own!

Thanks for your tips! I will take note of that for potential future upgrades to this robot. Cheers.

I appreciate that! Will work on more as such. Cheers.

Hmm. That would be a fun project, might try!

Can you make it actually which sensors would use

Hi there. Please check with the updated circuit diagram and real-life wiring photos linked in the video description. The battery's minus terminal goes to the front right of the circuit to GND and the plus terminal to one or 2 terminals of the switch at the rear.

It can follow any line without sharp turns. Also, it would not follow the line if it were not for its line-sensing circuit.

Hey, Raj! Thanks!

Hi. My apologies! I must've missed that... Please check the updated diagram I added to the google drive folder linked in the video description. Cheers.

Thanks!

Late? Thanks for your comment.

This is a good time for you to learn electronics!

Glad you like it! Thanks

No. However you may check the updated diagram in the video description that is accurate to the circuit my robot works with.

Thanks!

So simple yet super cool! Thanks for sharing.

Thanks!  This was when I was about 12 or 15 years old. I put it in a darkened "haunted House" and went exploring with a few kids with flashlights. It scared the c--p out of them! It ran towards the first kid to turn a flashlight on it, then turned to the next one to shine one to see what was happening.  Mike L. @MaxImagination

Hi there. Please check the recently updated diagram in the video description. Cheer for pointing this out.

Hi there. I don't have a tutorial of that laser diode. Please ask google.

Thanks 🤗

Thank you for your comment. Have fun making it!

Nice project! I did a similar design last year, using two high brightness white LEDs for illumination, two yellow LEDs paired with an BC547 amplifying stage for each one for reflection detection (using the yellow LEDs as photocells), two BD135 with 1N4004 flyback diodes for driving the bigger motors and an LM339 for the comparator. I find remarkable that such a simple bang-bang controller can follow lines so well.  But, I have to say that I've got VERY worried in seeing solder being filed. Most probably you are producing a lot of highly lead contaminated dust, because most popular solder alloys generally have 60% tin and 40% lead, or 63% tin and 37% lead. Not only it is very easy to breathe in some of that dust but, as well, this fine dust has quite an ability to stick to the skin of your hands, and stay there even after some washing.  Play safe! Don't fool around with solder dust.

SMOOTH, no BS and easy to understand. Wow, this is soo cool

I know most simple circuits use two photo sensors, but since you are just following an "edge" (blacl/white edge,) you don't need two photo detectors.

Hey, this is great.  My 11 year old is in the works of making something like this.  One note or question though.  You say 51ohm resistor but it looks like you are using 47ohm instead...how important is it for it to be 51ohm?  Just curious.  Thanks.

where the potensio ?

great work brother. Respect ++ 🫡

Excelente amigo sigue así .... felicito

es ist wunderschön !

Nice video! A line follower is a fun starter project. 👍 Adding a couple of flyback diodes to protect the transistor might be good for the long-term operation of the circuit. While the motors are small, it's always good to take precautions to prevent any potential damage to the transistors.

Grandma's sewing kit? You mean my mothers cookie box

Simple question : Is it possible to make an invisible line with like some special pen and a special led ? Currently working on a huge racing circuit and i want so hard to add trafic without killing my budget.

Very... Well max 😅that's your.... Outstanding creativity on making everything tiny... 🤏

PCB robots series!

Vape pen battery and USB mini charge port.  3.7 Volts Insanity!

Super complex, but GENIUS DESIGN!

His Soldering skills are good

crazyyyyyyyyyyyy

I like that you reply to every comment!

This shows the difference between animals and plants or cells. Animals have brains, so they are like robots with microprocessors, but cells and plants don’t, so they are like this, using complex mechanisms to do somewhat simple tasks without thinking.

Om Shanti 🙏 radhe radhe

Thanks for your comment! Seems like there are many simple line follower robots of different kinds out there as such, cool!  I see you got a point there with the solder dust, I will try not to touch it next time. Thanks for the tip. I've also already invested in a solder fume extractor to use every time I'm working on a circuit. I highly recommend it.

Glad you enjoyed the video! Cheers.

I see how you may be right, but with 2 sensors, it's more likely to stay on the line and not veer off.

following the schematic is difficult lol.  It has things that  you do not mention but we think we got it working...using a little trial and error.  The big trick is to dial in the speed of these little drone motors...we could not get the weight off the cell phone motors with out breaking the shaft.  If we create this thing we will probably create a little more detailed schematic, if we do we will either send it your way via your elktor links or tag you in a post with it attached.  Thanks man, this is a great little project!

​ @Kai-Made both motors are independently switched "full on" or "full off" by their respective LDR/comparator ckt. the ldr placements& comparator thresholds decide the on/off for motor (L or R side) to do correction when it veers off track/line.. When energised they are always at max.speed... therefore it tends to  "runaway" sometimes....

Hey! 47 and 51 ohm resistors are just about the same. It makes no difference in the circuit. Also, please check the updated circuit diagram in the video description. Cheers.

The two 20K ohm resistors on top replace the need of a potentiometer as that's the attuned value.

oh i see and where the diode in diagram ?  @MaxImagination

and can you give the type of mini diode between IN4007 diode  @MaxImagination

Thanks for watching!

Gracias!

Danke!

Thanks for watching! Good point. Well, I have updated the circuit diagram with the flyback diodes and other changes. Cheers.

Yep, that too!

Unless you're willing to change the photoresistors for magnetic reed switches, no. This isn't possible with the current robot setup due to the fact it needs to detect dark/light contrasting edges.

@MaxImagination  So let's say i use invisible magnetic paint and hall sensors on the device, it's possible ?  Because a simple HO autonomous car is arround 150$ and it's pretty expensive.

Thank you 😀

Will think of more then! Cheers.

Glad you like it! Thanks!

I appreciate that!

You're welcome :)

Well explained!

Both the minds and the cells of animals and plants use electrons and so dose this videos “line follower”

nice.

I don't have the money, but I want to see it going 100mph on a straight line but, when almost at the end make a sharp left turn.

where am i going to find a board like that

thats about 1 dollar

Thanks for arabic cabtions ❤

With sponsorship from PCBway, can you make a smaller version of this or the same size using only SMD parts?

Its a clear and well made video, the only criticism I have is that you say "PCB board" instead of perf board.

Thanks i Will try it❤

I think that we ca use parts from a mouse to make the same thing with a little modification

This was really awesome tiny robot ( tiny 🐜 )

you did a great job on this max! the circuit and soldering was really clean and neat as it so tiny. keep it up 🙌❤

❤❤❤

The intro was actually a very nice use of AI, that was a cool animation.

As a maker new to robotics these tutorials are amazing, I would love to see more! keep on creating banger videos!

Wow, I haven't seen one of these since the early 80's.  I went to a robotics course as a kid, and we built several robots from the ROBOTIX series.  My favorite was the line following robot.  Those kits, along with having a Compaq Portable 286 computer kick started my career as a programmer, network engineer, calibration tech in the Marines and for Lockheed, a turbo test engineer for Rolls-Royce, a control system engineer on the pump stations in New Orleans, and a Senior software engineer creating automation software for Metrology labs.  This is awesome, thanks for sharing!

Subscribing to your channel is the best decision of my life

Good ol BEAM robots

These type of videos are great👍  I subbed ❤

So, IMHO, making a tutorial where you show how to do something, and then go "after the fact, I had to do this to get it to work right" might prove frustrating for some. Yeah, I'd probably watch the whole video first before attempting this, but if I hadn't, and I was following along step-by-step, I'd be annoyed. :P

It would be good to see more robot videos

You can purchase these perf boards via the links in the description.

ok @MaxImagination

You're welcome 😊

Might try!

Thanks for your feedback. Will improve on that verbal mistake next time I talk about perf boards.

Thanks, Jonu!

Thank you! Cheers!

Glad you liked it! Thanks 😊

Glad you like them! Thanks a lot! 😊

Thanks for sharing your experience! Cheers 😊

Origin story better than Batman.

Your comment made my day. Thank you! 🤩

Yay!!

Awesome, thank you!

As I don't see the point in first spending all the time it takes to make X project and then making another copy all over again simply to make a tutorial out of it, I do it this way to save time and push the boundaries with each and every project while also showing others what challenges they could have been faced with. P.S. Nobody begins following a tutorial until they have seen the end result or the full making process 😂

MINDBLOWING!!!

You should have known those tiny motors have huge KV ratings and need to either be geared down or controlled with a PWM.     I still upvoted the video.

Good one 🎉

This is fun 🙃 I like this

The same robot without regard to size would be interesting. A version like more common toy motors and perhaps using batteries.

Great job! Please have more videos about pcb robots!

Can i make with bigger motors without changing the driver circuit

very good

Make it even tinier by making all components smd.

Hey Buddy! Honestly, LOVED IT! please make more of such kinds, would love to see them! go on with the series, all support! All the very best! 🌹

more mini stuff like this🙏

I participated in a Line Follower Competition held at university level among the college students. Got 3rd position there. All the participants who made this type of robot(this technique is called bang-bang) were eliminated in the first round or so. The only participants who could qualify for the semi finals made the pid line follower. Ours was pid too. But for this kind of robot, it requires a lot of precise calibration. It would be really good if you also try making an advance pid line follower that can be a competition winner.

You can lower the gear ratio by using smaller rounded tires, you just may have to angle to motors to get them to touch the ground.  Furthermore, you can adjust the steering effectiveness by making the front caster farther forward or backwards, and/or by bringing the wheels closer together or spreading them farther apart.  To get max voltage drop to the motors, don't use Schottky diodes, but rather normal silicon diodes. Most Schottky diodes only drop ~0.3 volts. Normal silicon diodes drop ~0.65 V. You can also just use resistors if you observe ohms law. (same thing really.)  Li-Po batteries can catch fire pretty easy. Recommend against their use if possible. At that size, it would be like a few books of matches going all at once. Still enough to burn you, or burn your house down.  CdS photo cells are most sensitive to green light, right around 555nm. Use of a green LED and light absorber that takes green up best for your lines would be ideal.  They make smaller dual comparator IC's. A reasonable substitute would be a dual op-amp IC.

❤

Brilliant work, Max! It works great! 😃 Stay safe there with your family! 🖖😊

Awesome!!!! Apply for world record

This guy is so under rated

I like the introduction, you can make this robot very affordable if you have 1 broken computer, 1 remote tv controller, 2 broken mobile phone.

Great work max! You are going pro on tiny circuits😎 The sound effects are cool and with extreme editing skills 👏 Really appreciated your efforts, Waiting for 100k subs 🎉

1  90 degree turn and it oes of track. wonder if i can add more of those sensor thingies.

I was totally aware of that, but still went for the challenge. If the robot was not to move with the current motors, angling them would have worked even better. Always more to learn... Thanks for watching!

​ @MaxImagination ...angling them ????

Glad you think so! Thanks for watching

Thank you! Will do!

Sure, you can!

@MaxImagination  thank you so much

Good idea! I thought of doing that, but many may find it harder to replicate.

Thank you for your kind and supportive comment! Will think of making more 😁

Will do!

You can also do analog implementations of PID, it's just harder than doing it through a microcontroller

Thanks for sharing that. Really cool!  If I see a good fit for a YouTube video, I may try making a competitive line follower robot with Arduino. Cheers.

Thanks for your tips, this is really useful to know. Will take note of that!

Thank you, MC! 😁

Thank you! Would be fun to try 😁

The infrared leds, the batteries and the boxes you can get them easily on any electronic shop and are cheap. And there is no need to make it that small.   But yeah he is a douchebag, but I can skip that in account of the interesting project he shared.

Can you suggest me how to make a repeated vehicle that on py pressing button and hit with wall and come back with itself to it's original position.  Without any sensor or controlling devices

"Can you tell me how to avoid walking into walls? I have no eyes, no ears, no sense of touch or motion" 😂

2 broken tv remotes

And a shirt

I made this robot with a Squirrel, a knot and a line follower robot

​ @userxxdy123  "how do i sense things without sensing them?"

Russians are making military drones, out of washing machines 😅

Look for substitutions. Any motor. Any wheel thing. Make it work

Thank you so much, Kumar! I appreciate you noticing the details of my video 😊

Perhaps adding multiple photoresistors in a parallel array outwards like most of those competitive line followers would do the trick.

hi max

Wow its so good. I might also make one

That's pretty cool!! 😁🙌🏽🏎️

Wonderful Project Max!! 😃 I just made a Line follower to get me snacks from kitchen 😁😜

The Cutest mini Bot! 🤏

Excellent video, Max 👍😁

Amazing as usual

this is actually impressive ngl, nice job

Yoo max, I love you're work, and you know what, you gave me a idea to make many of them and make a racing track so that following robot is going to follows the track and do something race, sorry for my grammar

Woahwy that's crazy cool ^^

Lets gooo 6 th

Hey dude, Please make a detailed video on how to make a Transmitter and receiver(of audrino nano and NRF module) and its programming, I have watched your previous video on it but iam totally confused, please make it , or a simple Rc car which includes a single dc motor with servo (or instead of servo for stearing you can use dc motor😅), and this transmitter and receiver,  Please Dude I beg you 😢 Please reply if your are gonna make it 🥲

*Abstract*  This video tutorial teaches you how to construct a miniature line-following robot that doesn't require a microcontroller or Arduino. The robot is remarkably small and can track lines of various widths at high speeds. Here's what you'll learn in the video:  * *Components:* Most parts are commonly available, including motors from old Nokia phones, a comparator circuit salvaged from power inverters, and buttons for wheels. You can also purchase the components from provided affiliate links.  * *Construction:* The robot is built on a small perforated PCB board. Detailed instructions cover component placement, soldering, battery connection, and making the front caster wheel.  * *Circuitry:* The robot uses an LM 358 comparator for decision-making, LEDs, resistors, transistors, and other electronic components. The video includes a circuit diagram, assembly explanation, and tips.  * *Charging and Enhancements:* The tutorial suggests using a rechargeable lithium polymer battery and covers adding heat shrink wrap to the wheels for better grip and shockey diodes for voltage adjustment.  * *How it Works:* The robot uses light-dependent resistors to detect the difference between light and dark surfaces. A feedback loop corrects the robot to stay on track by controlling motors accordingly.   * *Troubleshooting and Limitations:* If the robot struggles to stay on track, the tutorial suggests using geared motors and adjusting voltage through diodes.  * *Educational Content:* This project is ideal for hands-on learning. The maker also promotes a subscription service (Circuit Mess) that offers educational electronics kits.   disclaimer: i used gemini advanced 1.0

Nice bro

2nd

1st comment

Hey!

Glad you like it! Cheers.

Thanks, Joshua! Have a nice week ahead!

@MaxImagination  no problem!! Same too you as well!! 🙌🏽

Thank you, Sahil!  Haha, our robots should have a race! 😉

Thank you, buddy!

I appreciate that, James! Have a great week ahead 😎

Thanks again!

I appreciate that!

ahh!, I thought you were gonna lie about it for a moment!

Hey! I appreciate your comment! That would be so cool 👍

Thanks for watching!

Hey! I'm sure I'll be making more RC car tutorials in the future, as it's my favorite project subject. However, I cannot promise you anything specific. Let's see!

