Assalomualaikum brother, how are you. Can I ask one question, Arduino+esp32 s cam. On this project? If possible, make a video. How to program.?

Great project, cant wait to see more fantastic idea

Can u help me if i use Camera OV7670 instead?

Hello :) I made the robot in your video "Easy Object Following Robot using Arduino and PixyCam" but the robot needs to go forward. else { moveRobot(70, 70); } Only the right motor rotates. Left motor does not move. I sent -70 to the Left engine to test it, it worked. But it doesn't go straight with 70. The rest of the code works fine. Do you have a solution suggestion?

great  video  any chance  you  could  update  this  showing  this  robot  with  the  newer  pixy2  i would  so  appreciate it

i signed up  at  cv zone to  get  this  project but  of  course it  doesnt work  with  pixy2

If you disconnect the internet from it, will it stop working or will it still work normally?

Hello I want to know where are you bought xt60 gender connected L298N driver

Hi, can you help me trying to write the code for pixy 2 but I’m getting errors

more accuracy than using infrared sensor i think. am i right?

Good job, what is the minimum and maximum sensing distance? Thanks.

What did he use to connect the pixy cam and the Arduino?

how to use phone cam instead of pixycam

Hello there vaiya, the "link" is broken, can you fix this for me, please?

does this work with the pixycam 2? How could I make it work with the pixycam 2?

So the hard work is done by the  Picxycam which locates an object and addresses it position.

Which software did u used to simulate and model

Hello mate. I have question. Do you think its possible to use that camera to make a route like with line followers? I mean camera will pick signs one after another instead of following one point

Code copy give me

Please give all Belonging name  I am make it model

Can we run the robot without connect it to computer after upload the code?

Is it possible to implement the same with raspberry Pi pico and micro servo?

How to broadcast the camera to the smartphone wirelessly?

Great Project 👏👏👏👏   Is it possible to run a CNN written in python on any arduino board to control a robotic arm according input imaged from openCV camera?

Great video. Is it possible to use the pixycam to detect fire? Your response will be great appreciated.

Would this be possible if you wanted to hook up something to yourself that beeped every time it came into contact with a specific set of receivers?? So for example if the car was just driving in a straight line past a series of objects, it would beep when it passed certain ones (such as ones that had a receiver or something) and not others

Sir, Can esp8266 be used instead of arduino?

Very thanks for your sharing , explaining , guiding and teaching  kindly bro ... Thank you so so much 🤗🤗🤗 🙏🙏🙏

Wow that amazing

Can u make me a drone based project which should have 3 features?  . 1. Object detections and count  2. Object tracking  3. Automatic obstacle changing if something comes in way while tracking object.  . The drone should be connected with mobile. If drone has followed/ tracked a person so whenever owner wants, the drone would return to the place where that owner cellphone is.  . Thank You

this is the way I am looking for , Thank you very much sir .

Its not object following it is color tracking, the PixyCam is only able to detect and follow colors not an object. Provide it with a yellow rubber duck or a yellow ball the results will be the same.

I have question sir, can pixy cam detected 2 object with different color ?

Can you update the link for the code in your description? It says your site has moved.

nice project sir!

Sir i need this project

Hi from Turkey. Can I do this project on ESP32cam module? Can you help me plz?

Is it possible do this with openCV? 🤔🤔

Hello, how did you fit the battery splitter cables inside the 12v and ground terminals?

hello sir. I am using the pixy2 sensor and the code doesnt seem to be working. Do you by any chance have the code for the pixy2 sensor

I got it. Code below....

Comment out #include <Pixy2CCC.h>

Hey dude could I use of another type of cameras? Like night vision or other stuff like that?

this is great but Pixy cam it very expensive for me :(

Can you add pictures of people for it to follow thanks?

code please

You inspired me to build my first robot https://youtu.be/omdraron8xA

Great job, sir. Do you think this could work using the same code with an ESP32-cam instead of Uno and pixycam?

Hello! Would you give me permission to use some shots of this video in a video in which I'm working on? (it's a teaser - 1minute maximum - which intends to promote an activity my faculty (Faculty of Engeneering of University of Porto) is going to do with high school students next month. So basically I need to find footage of robotic arms and a DIY arduino Line Follower Car to exemplify what we're going to do with them). I've looked for something similar on 'Storyblocks' but I can't find footage like this. Thank you in advance =)

Need help for pixy 2 code, can you help me?

Can this also trace human ??

You comes in the category of some such youtubers which extremely good teachers🙏🙏thank you👍👍

Please can you give me coding.?

Where can I find the code?

aferim murtaza

Will it follow human?

Wow amazing project....... Can this follow only objects or even human?

I am working on this project with  a Pixy 2 and running into some problems. Every time I run the program, I get an error that says  Pixy2 has no member named 'getBlocks' Please help if you can.

This robot follow the colour, right? If two object have the same colour, this robot cannot follow the object choosed.

Great job. If is there a lot of object at the field? What can we do? Thanks already

Honestly I'd give each wheel a mosfet, so they can be controlled individually/variable. 0-5v, 0-255. 🐒

Can't find one using camera in robot but you done with it.so you are special.(•‿•)

Sure . No problem

Thank You

​ @murtazasworkshop Please make a video of object tracking robot using esp 32cam in a similar way u made by pixycam.

Hey, Have you rectified your problem?

@MohamedAli-cv4hu  have u solved this i am also stuck

@farhanraza1995  no I havent

@farhanraza1995  Have you made any progress in code? if so can you share please!

Can you change to code for pixy2

you qre the best of the best

Nice explanation 👍

Gee, i could watch these video for a long time, so interesting.  Thanks.  :)  the pixycam sounds like fun.

This project can use for drone?

can you make a video about OpenCV and Arduino object tracking with pan/tilt servos

Can you please make a video on how to use pixy camera particularly

can I share your video on other social networks and on my channel?

It's a perfect project! i want to make it! but how can i connect pixy cam with arduino? i can't find connection fig ;)

Where r u form?

Bro r u Bohra muslim

kindly share me the robo coding

can this project done in raspberry pi and pi cam

Can i make this project using camera ov7670 with arduino???

Can you please help? I am using a pixy 2 and I am getting few errors in the code.

i'm using pixy2 instead of pixy , can you help me with code ?

dude could you help me in this project

Man this is amazing.....Trust me....this will be a great robotics channel in future

Great project and result! I'll try to adapt this to my own.

Can you please give the buying link of the camera module used here. Thanks.

dude your content is great,you really have a futur doing this,keep up the good work and spend some money on Facebook adds,I found your channel on facebook

for drone try this https://youtu.be/vDOkUHNdmKs

Yes ofcourse

@murtazasworkshop  thanks

you can connect them directly to the icsp pins

@murtazasworkshop  thanks can you share the wiring diagram

Pakistan

I'm from Bangladesh

the code is in the github page . Link in the description

Yes but you will need to write a bit more code.

yes but it would be slower and more difficult to work with

Sure

@murtazasworkshop  I am actually using a chassis with two motors and wheels and pixy 2. I have managed to fixed the errors and compile the code on pixy 2. But the robot doesn't seems to follow the object correct. I think it has something to do with the values in the moveRobot if statement. Any ideas?

@yiannispahitas192  Geia sou file mou prospathw kai egw na kanw to robot kai exw problima me ton kodika, den pernei dedomena apo tin pixy 2, mporeis na me voithiseis se parakalw?

Have you sorted the code?

The code should be the same

Sure

Thank you for your kind words

Thank you . Good Luck

There is a newer version of this camera pixy cam 2 . I recommend using that . Here is the link https://amzn.to/2FaVDx3

@murtazasworkshop  hello, does the same code and connections work for pixy2 camera as well?

Thank you for your kind words. I will look into your suggestion.

