Lame.. where is the rest!

as a CNC machinist and repairing expert, I know the value of this. very good very appreciated

Fanuc robot program pdf

How to unload it ?

great

Why a teach pendant instead of just hooking up to a laptop?

Very nice  Can i ask you  How can you shar the screen teanch to pc

Its worth noting these Robots DO NOT work for all applications. I work with Dual Grade Stainless pipe that is extremely gummy. The shavings created through the threading process wrap around the pipe and create indexing problems and regular crashes when the robot attempts to flip the parts. It was a short lived experiment

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fJkVxW55Ieg&t=29s

I love you guys !  Thank you

FANUC - ROBÓTICS - Automação : Hoje - Tudo - Robótics - industria ; Alimentícias - Eletrônicas -  Serviços - Geral - Aeroespacial -  Produção ; Montagem ; Solda -  Pinturas : etc ; Fanuc - Robótics -  New - Sistem : Hi - Speed : Movimentos ; New - Sistem : Controller : Movimentos - Redondos - como : Humanos : Suave : Precisa ; Todos : Direções : e : Sentidos ; Hoje : Robótics : estão - Perfeitos ! em : Movimentos ! : Controller - Perfeitos : Suave - Precisa : Hi - Speed ; em ; Qualquer : Serviços : Geral : Hoje ; C/ ; New - Sistem : introduzidas ; Melhorou : Muito ; Agilidades : Movimentos - Precisa - Perfeição ; Robótics ; Fanuc - Robótics : Ano : 2030 ; Ano : Robótics : Global - Fantástic !!! ; Fanuc - 2030 - Top - Top - Top .

I got one of these robots for free. This is going to useful for sure.

Hanzhen harmonic drive gear , robot arm gear , automation gear joint ,  over 30 years experience ,

START driving a car NOW!!! ... so now you can see the car and in the following lessons you're going to know what it actually is and maybe perhaps, perhaps even pretend to drive it, if you're the lucky one. :)

WERE I CAN BAY A PROGRAMS

Where is the next video

When is the automation series going to be up on the site? Can we expect more videos of this setup? We just purchased a robo and are interested in adding automation.

I love programming robots!

whats the difference between programming this robot and programming cobot?

I appreciate what you present here good job. Can I find a simulation for this robot and it's control so I can follow along applying with you?!

If you have 5 grand burning a hole in your pocket, you could get a roboguide license.. You could also get ROBO DK which provides simulations for many other industrial robots and has much cheaper/free trial pricing, however its a far cry from roboguide when it comes to training Fanuc TP programming.

Very usefull information for me, thanks

Alright, I think I understand why some people don't want FANUC and go with some sort of KUKA instead. Man, I thought the FANUC robots were not as bad as their mill/lathe controllers, when talking about ease of use and intuitiveness. But no, it's very similar option-menu-ception.

Amazing

Hi, just wondering, did you do college to learn this or some course specific to robot programming?

lets move a robot:)) very interesting

👍

Nice to see this in the channel, i've been programming a fanuc arc mate 100 with a r30ib controller

new prog, insert door open.... the end

I need more. Congratulations. I have bought fanuc cr 15 ia, i am learning

PULL THE TRIGGER AND BUY A METAL 3D PRINTER! ADDITIVE AND SUBTRACTIVE MANUFACTURING IN ONE SHOP BOOOOOOMMMMMMMMMM

Thats not programming at all.

AWESOME!!! 👍

Much easier than it was 20 years ago. Now it programs more like a PLC with plug and play programming. Flow charting can help keep the logic part straight.

Nice work guys!

Nice

Ok so we're getting there. Sweet

Kuka and fanuc are both badass 😎

It’s literally programming

