665th like

Can you provide link to Amazon Basic containers.

what type and size batterys will you use .

Came across your channel just yesterday and have watched bits and pieces of a whole bunch of your videos. All on my list to watch in their entirety. Have been wanting to build a useful robot for a while now, not just a toy, but didn't know how to do it. I think this series will give me exactly what I need. Thanks!

Thank you Bill this is a really interesting serie.

I really would like to know what your using to power this project.  I'm using a drill battery.

Anyone have a link for the storage boxes

Hello Mr. BILL, first of all congratulations for this your very interesting project . I apologize in advance but I am only now following your project (15 - 11 - 2020). Two questions regarding power wiring. 1 - I don't see any main switches 2 - Have you foreseen a single switching on of all modules, or will there be a sequence? Thank you for your attention roberto PS: I'm at episode 6, it may be that these questions of mine are out of date

I would really love an entire episode dedicated to batteries.  Old drill battery, vs lipo, vs lead acid, ect.

U r an geek

Illuminating!

17:32 "Kid in candy shop" local electronic shop have been using candy bags for components for years, I've been calling it for candy shop for that reason, and well, its almost like candy shop :D

You're awesome..  you are doing great job.

It appears that the white connectors you are using are Tamiya connectors. I would suggest an alternative connector. I have helped coach an FTC robotics team for the past 7 years. For the first couple of years we used our batteries as they came to us with the Tamiya connectors. But what we found is that we started having random electronics failures during our matches. The culprit was the Tamiya connectors. Basically the female connector was becoming slightly enlarged over time (plugging/unplugging the batteries). The result was that when the robot changed direction or was bumped sometimes the male and female connectors would briefly become disconnected. We have since switched to Anderson Powerpole connectors. They work great and the only failures we have had is when the contacts are not properly crimped or if they weren't inserted into the housing properly. We haven't had any issues with duty cycle. The Anderson Powepole connectors are rated for 10,000 no-load connect/disconnect cycles. I couldn't find similar information for the Tamiya connector but in my experience it's more like dozens, perhaps hundreds of connect/disconnect cycles.

About the connection via the plug.. You do realise that 35A would need a waaaay bigger core? It's AWG8 for NAD or 10mm^2 for European standard.. The pins of your connector are equal to about 1.5mm^2 what would allow maximum load of 13A. Besides of that I'm enjoying this robot series!

Fantastic project. It's robot heaven. 😀

Very nice series, I enjoy it a lot. Quick question: why didn’t you use silicone insulated wires? They’re way flexible and conform to the surface easily. Anyway, minor thing...

The db 1 looks highly expandable this probably sounds crazy but could could voice command from raspberry pie be used with this as well?

Hi Bill. Apologies if this has already been answered, but are you publishing a full list of materials, parts and components for the complete project?

Perfect at speed x1.25

Hey Bill, amazing and outstanding video as always. Why don't you put an Amazon referral links for the gadgets you show in the videos, like those storage trays? It's a win-win, we don't have to search for them and you get a small cut. It's also a way for us to support you. I'm way more likely to buy this sort of stuff rather than a mug or shirt. Also, do you accept donations? I know you want to keep this channel garbage-free and you are not advertising not selling anything, and I commend you for that. It just boggles my mind how you can put out so much content, and with this quality. I feel the need to give back a bit :D All the best Bill, take care of yourself!! ♥️

Can you make step by step rainwater/sun tracker 2 in1?

What are the part numbers for the two AmazonBasics storage containers? Thanks!

Thanks Bill, I’m trying to keep up with you on my outdoor robot.

Please make a video on MQTT protocol

Amazing

I am really loving this series on robotics. You do a great job of teaching and explanation. FYI, ServoCity (Actobotics) is having National Robot Week sales going on. Very good discounts.

Well what's to say your the governor buddy I think I may have to use the tf mini lidar but I think it will work fine this wiring system looks awesome 👍

Exceptionally fine video. The schematics help a lot. DB1 is beginning to shape up. What a great idea. Thank you for sharing...

Your videos and  your progress on your DB-1 robot are phenomenal.  Great work Bill!  I see someone was asking for more frequent videos.  To be honest I don't know how you manage to put out as many as you already do.   You are SUPER HUMAN Bill.   Obviously the person requesting more videos has no clue what it takes to make one.  And the quality of your videos is outstanding as well.  I'm already thrilled that you put out two videos a week.  That's already a major accomplishment.   Thank you so much for all your hard work and superb skills that you share with us weekly.   We are forever grateful.

I really enjoy your videos and have learned a lot.  Thanks for explaining everything so well.

Great power distribution job. Should cover all your distribution needs. only suggestion is to paint the 12 voly buss bars white, to keep the colour scheme in place.

In the USA you can get the storage boxes at Harbor Freight for like $10 and you can also mix and match the bins, if you buy  several of them and you need one to have small stuff and one to have larger stuff (they come with small, med, and large, bins) super handy. great video thanks!

Heat video  as always! Keep up the great job

great job again :) thank you

Bill I very much appreciate your thoroughness. I had a major oops when I was 58 and as a result I have been on pain pills and other meds for about 8 or 9 years ( and the remainder of my life_) and as such I find it hard to "free think".  But watching you explain things you cover everything.. For example the rubber grommets, now in the old days i would have put them in as a matter of course.. Today how ever I would not have even thought of them until i was done building it and then would have said nuts I ain't gonna take it apart for them.. But you pointing out the obvious like that helps me ( and others I am sure, that are not a simple minded as I am)  To be aware and remember to do something so simple and important.. I can follow your instruction easily with out saying "what did he mean?" I just wanted to thank you for sharing your great abilities with us.. I am sure we all feel that way to.. your a good man Bill.. thanks for the share and please... carry on!

Excellent cable management, I have developed and build from scratch a pellet burner prototype for my heating system with an arduino micro as the controller,  The most difficult part was making the harness without quick connectors, which i will agree with you, it made it difficult to troubleshoot, lesson learned....looking forward for the upcoming video.

I cant stand  this anymore! I have to subscribe to this channel! :)  Love to you and your family from Sweden!

Thanks.........

Gr8 Sir.

Super 👍

I always look forward to these videos! That's my day complete now :D I love that storage solution :) I use a similar multiple drawer system made by Raaco, which has removable drawers in a large caddy (four drawers in each caddy) with removable compartments in each drawer. Makes it very easy to dump out the compartment for all my various switches for example, pick out what I need, then scoop the rest back into the compartment. That's a very neat and tidy power distribution system, very well done! Looking forward to seeing more :D

great

top lezion

This is so inspiring.  I have so many bits and pieces that I have accumulated.  You make the assembly process so clear.

I was awaiting for your video !   If possible could you please increase the no. post per week :)

First!

if you send lots of $$$

