Do you want to see more robotics projects? Let me know down below, I would really like ot build some more and cool robots :) If you need code, STL files and more info on this one, you can find all that here: https://indystry.cc/

That's crazy dedication. Good job

Amazing

its cool what python can do

how can i do this with an esp32cam preferably in c++

Really nice project   If I wanna to do the same one. What program language should I lean ?   Is python  good enough?

Bro this guy has the power of nasa🤯

want a robot that maps out all the spaces in the house so that i know where my things are, and maybe it can get stuff from under the bed.  i'd also like a robot that automatically connects everything to nearby chargers.

Python is very difficult  I always use Arduino IDE

dude you gotta change the music next time. I like what u doing but that is gonna drive me insane

Can i get a code sir? I really need for my automated robot thesis

documentation is gone

Why Hes Wearing NASA Jacket?

Plzz share working project link.

I really love your project!! And respect your engineering skills. Hope you keep doing wonderful projects!!

Can python run in Arduino?

I THOUGHT SOMEONE WAS WHILSTING IN MY HOUSEEEEEEEEE, lmfaoooo

https://youtu.be/hTdpXFmikvk

If I wanted to make action figures that could like strike a pose I guess ( think of a gi joe that'll go from standing to prone or a ninja drawing a sword) for like a self moving action figure display, would it ve possible and where can I learn to do it

what the name of editor?

I absolutely love your videos, I would love to see some tutorials/videos on how to use an oscilloscope, even if it is a little basic. Also, I wanted to ask if I could collaborate with you in the future using my knowledge of acoustic engineering (loudspeakers, etc.), I don't produce videos but I thought as you seem such a great guy I'd really enjoy a project like that with you. ;)

If you could do a really fun eagle pcb design tutorial that would be truly epic

I would love to see more robotics projects coming from you your videos are amazing thank you

I would like to see more robotics, it would be amazing. :)

Am so happy to see you working on your robotics program

Can make a proper  video on this (i mean from code to hardware cover everything)

How about a rolling-ball robot. Happy to collaborate.

Yes please

ok wtf this is amazing I just barely seeing it move now omg !!! you're a genius

Thank you very cool robot!

Desktop Robotic Arm with this feature

Yes👍

Wtf python is way easier.

It's really cute!  ☺

What camera and microcontroller did you use?

This is really cool bro, can you make a complete video of the programming the robot?

Thanx. This will be my first baby. Thank you so much Nikodem, i really needed this. It's a project for a baby. I need to upgrade her little Lambo. It needs a little love. I think i can do it, and surprise her permissions from parents.

Way cool. You have inspired me that i can do it too. You said idk how to use this but that didn't stop you. I think i can do this.

You are a genius!!! It was amazing... Keep it up!

can i use arduino uno r3 atmega 328p with esp 32 cam for tracking object ?

i need to upgarde mine too  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sWGsExF2Gvc

Buen video y buena explicación.  Espero poder reproducir tu proyecto.

Good

This is a great evolutionary step for your robot, and the extra red ball is great for when you’re troubleshooting your Python code. 😎

Damn, my brain start to heating when watch this videos But it's make me want more to teaching about arduino

Hi, great video. Where I can find informations about the modules like sensor, image, time, lcd, machine and so on.  And where I can find the 'board_info' to know the pin names?  Thank you very much.

Amazing job, It would be great to see more robotic projects!

Good work. Keep it up!

train this robot to fetch the ball that would be awesome

subscribed

and I have also learn coding

Hi I am a web developer and designer and now I am learning python

Robotics is one of my dreams but i still dnt know where to learn "how to actually program a robot" like, install the code in the robot itself and what boards do i need to achieve that.

Ese nombre tan hispano. 🤣🤣🤣

Amazing project!

Ok, but what's the point

zi coolest person i have ever seen in youtube . cool one boss

which ide you use

Very cool stuff! Thanks for sharing. /BR Joakim

how do you get a roabot kit

The Linkedin bit at the end made me chuckle.  Great video, Nik!

great going mate

really cool project! i learn the python and i'm very surprised that such projects can be done using not just only c++

Real intelligence. You know this. You are good at technologie,robots and coding. Respects

Go open source pet Roomba!

Nice one 👍

It is super👌

Sir,may I know which board(computer) you are using to program that ROBOT.?

Gorgeous project! I'm a bit furious, youtube didn't send me a notification when you posted this... Anyway I'm here to admire once again your inventiveness. This project is more complex than you introduced it. Thank you Nikodem! Instructive. BTW find one hour or two to rest, you look so exhausted ;) my friend!

that's great can you give us tips about the programming part ?? and where we can learn it From Scratch

when you did it initially how did you connect the phone to Arduino,and I did you run the computer vision software on the phone or on the board

You are doing great work 👌👌 Keep it up

That was really amazing! Such a great work! I'm very passionate about AI and robotics and I can't wait to see more of your content.

helal olsun lan sana !!!

Have tried Vizi-AI devkit gives loads of power for the AI Vision and works with DDS which is in ros2   We have a talk on Iotnorth.uk meetup with rover robotics october 6th

Bro pls share the source code of python programme

Which software do you use to make pcb designs?

that make awesome 😍😍😍😍😍

Saran:tolong kasih subtittle INDONESIA Karena saya orang indonesia tapi gak ngerti bahasa nya.

wooooo!!!! it digital dog

Nice video, thank you! Have you ever heard about R.O.S.?

very great video

Really enjoyed the content. A technical video like this takes a long time to make. You clearly put the effort in. Keep going. Maybe add some auto head lights to help with lighting variances. Also check out DFrobot, Sparkun and Adafruit they have some decent priced stuff for us hobbyists. You can order it all right through Mouser depending on region.

Are you russian or german which country you make great project if need help I do lots of code or you need funding I can help you I also make project like this you can mail me at deathdaygamers@gmail.com

u should put a gun on it

Yup. Just found you on my news feed and I really enjoy this video.

Nice bro ! Awesome work bro.....Congrats.

Very nice!  I would love to see what kind of information you deliver on best practices for using an O-scope.  Many people just gloss over things they think are simple, but I’m sure there are plenty of people that would find a lot of value from a simple explanation of the basics - especially students or aspiring hobbyists.

This is awesome! I love how its little head swivels around to follow the ball, looks super cute.

A robot with computer vision is not a simple robot LOL

good job

wish u can make tutorial coding part for this project technically....

Great!!!

How does someone contact you directly?

Eagle

@nikodembartnik  thank you. And need not to mention you are brilliant.

Very nice project dude!!!

Sir, i am a beginner to robotics,so which language is best for robotics python or c++

Hi, I'm a new subscriber. Also add links to older videos which are being discussed in this video.

Thanks bro

post code for neural network robot please

PLEASE HOW TO MAKE A TELESCOPE

Thanks!

yeah i wanna learn more about oscilloscope

Yes, please. Show how the oscilloscope works. I am so curious

It's looking great! I know the copyrights are in the way, but "every breath you take" by the police would be the best soundtrack for this. It's the stalkerbot. :)

Well done ! Nice entertaining video with usefull information.

Love your work on Instructable. How you started all this at the age of 13-14?

Love all your videos .

Oh man I have the exact same scope and I'm trying to learn it better. A video would be much appreciated.

Next, mayonaise robot

I love how playful it is

Awesome stuff Nikodem!

+1 for oscilloscope videos.  I recently bought one and don't know how to use it yet :D

May I ask what the part number on the battery is? I'm searching for a small little lithium ion battery and can't find one that suits me needs, and it looks like the battery you're using fit my needs.

just letting you know about oscilloscope :)

Thanks!

If you want to learn properly c is a good place to start since you'll learn more about how the information is stored in memory and how a computer works practically I think python is more useful for this application and it's less frustrating since data types are handled by the compiler

it's not on github like you said in video

Maybe :) I wanted to build it last year!

@nikodembartnik  merci

it means thank you in french

True, but I don't want any troubles with YouTube :)

Image recognition is probably the most fun thing I've been doing in ML, we've been plaing pong with two tennis balls and PC camera on Uni - good times :)

Best project 👌👌👌

Nice video and amazing robot 💗

Excellent video. I had thought about a robot "mule" to follow my elderly mother from garage to house with groceries, etc. A robotic cart. Garage is separate from the house. I understand the object detection part. Does this system also calculate the distance to the object? I want the cart to follow her like a loyal dog but not run into her.

Very interesting project! I was also happily surprised that it wasn't crazy expensive. Additionally I saw that there is a Maixduino, maybe something to combine the best of two worlds? :)  Thanks for sharing!

It is amazing you deserve more

Does it follow only red colour

You are awesome! Good work and thank you for another fun and informative video.

i am also going to get myself an oscilloscope so some tutorials would be nice :D

now implement this sytem in a guided intercontinental ballistic missile

Have you heard something about openbot from intel? https://github.com/intel-isl/OpenBot

Very smooth transition

Disassemble, nooo Johnny 5's alive.

😁😎 another great project !

anyone tell me how to start in robotics?

nice

Absolutely love your videos! They improved so much during the last few years.

Your videos are such high quality. Amazing job keep up the good work

Do you want to see more robotics projects? Let me know down below, I would really like ot build some more and cool robots :) If you need code, STL files and more info on this one, you can find all that here: https://indystry.cc/

Maybe u could use some ultrasound sensors or if u want to use obj detection only, use some algorithms like yolov4, set a threshold on the bounding box and when the bounding box crosses a set threshold limit, make the cart stop...u will have to position the camera as such though...do give it a try and share the results mate😁😁😁

To target red areas? Lol

@ciarfah yeah, to Target Communist red flag of Russia..

@thealchemist8212  sorry, all communists flags have been sold to American democrats long time ago. No more left.

Well that escalated quickly

Start with Arduino, there are lots of examples how to build a robot car or robotarm with Arduino. Arduino's are cheap on ebay, also lot's of sensor's for Arduino on ebay. Look for ' How to Mechatronic'  or educ8s for really nice projects.

As mentioned, arduino is a good start. And finding a project you want to complete is good motivation to get past the inevitable hurdles :)

I absolutely love your videos, I would love to see some tutorials/videos on how to use an oscilloscope, even if it is a little basic. Also, I wanted to ask if I could collaborate with you in the future using my knowledge of acoustic engineering (loudspeakers, etc.), I don't produce videos but I thought as you seem such a great guy I'd really enjoy a project like that with you. ;)

If you could do a really fun eagle pcb design tutorial that would be truly epic

I would love to see more robotics projects coming from you your videos are amazing thank you

I would like to see more robotics, it would be amazing. :)

Am so happy to see you working on your robotics program

Can make a proper  video on this (i mean from code to hardware cover everything)

How about a rolling-ball robot. Happy to collaborate.

Yes please

ok wtf this is amazing I just barely seeing it move now omg !!! you're a genius

Thank you very cool robot!

Desktop Robotic Arm with this feature

Yes👍

