Where is the code for this project?

windows 7 is best OS

From where I can source the code for wheel encoder testing? i can not find it on your github

Can anyone send the link of repo for this robot..?!

Hi sir, can you display the codes and the packages of ros in the libraries with proper arrangements?

The site for the free ROS book seems to have gone offline. But the actual book was always on Dropbox and is still available there - unfortunately, YouTube usually censors comments with links so, I'll just say you can find everything via the Wayback Machine. In any case, the book covers ROS Kinetic Kame which came out in 2016 and belongs to the old ROS 1 series of releases. ROS 2 came out in 2017 and has been stable for a long time - so, it's probably best to start on a book or tutorial that covers it. James's videos are still a great place to get a high-level intro to the general ideas.

awesome

i want to meke one of this

Hello sir, I couldn't find this project in your github account, can you send the link of the project directly?

rosserial doesn't work in ROS2 & everything is quite a bit different, but each participant is a full node & there's auto discovery. so it's harder to use an 8 bit part, but something slightly bigger like an esp32 or pi pico is a first class node. i dunno if you got the returns you were looking for in your ROS videos but i'd love to see more. mundane stuff like buttons and LEDs got a lot tougher to just throw in there

nice i didnt know there was so much learning courses on the subject. definitely going to check it out.

I'm having trouble finding the playground code, can I get a link?

What's the best and cheapest raspberry pi alternate? Because I can't seem to find them at a good price anywhere.

Is there a good tutorial somewhere where I can learn how to set up the motor controls the way they were in this video?

Is the board on the previous kit that reads the arduino sensors based on the stm32?

Why do you need the 5 V regulator , already having the l298 like motor controllers? Confusing only because there are no schematics .Thanks.

I don't  know waht the link is for the arduino playground.

Hi James  Fantastic video, really appreciate it

Unable to find the repo for this exact project. Can you help me ?

I like your tshirt man

Check out my Really Useful Robot series. That one works much better and the code is on Github.

@jamesbruton  I figured out the issue.  I ordered motors without encoders.  I have been able to successfully read the new motors output now!  Time to create my PID system!

Oh I want that T-Shirt! :D checks description... Ooh goodie! There's a store.

cant find code can u please guide me

Crazy. Wow.

Thank you very much for this video. May you please upload the Arduino code? I know you have uploaded the updated version but I need this code specifically. Thank you very much.

i'm not sure if people realize and appreciate enough the work you do, in the sense that just reducing the gear ration from the motors, converting that into code, calibrate the 2 motors (which are opposite to each other) to match each other's speed, get the accurate reading from the encoders, and this is not even talking about the communication and translation between devices when you are using ros or electronics, etc, is just talking about that small part on wheels+encoders+arduino IDE.   Well done!

I'm a poor bystander really itching to dive into diy robotics and home automation, and I had this idea to run a drone-assisted security system running on a local server with functions that communicate with Home Assistant's integrated systems, and with the knowledge that an ROS-controlled device can be integrated into the same server infrastructure as Home Assistant I suddenly hope I'm not the only person with these sorts of ideas.

Hello I really live your work can i ask under what name did you upload your package in the github link

Меня так умиляет, когда он говорит "йЭбАнтУ"

hello from India....I am not able to find the complete code for wheel encoder. kindly provide

Great content, could you make a robot then explain odometry ? :)

Do you use other types of control aside from PID?

Hello James, thank you for making this video. Do you have the code for this particular robot uploaded to github? I can't seem to find it any where.

What motors and encoders are you using please?

sounds a bit like ROS works with MQTT internally to link and Node-Red to form the logic...

Great work, but i did not find arduino + ROS code in github. please give the direct link.

Hi there I am following your code to differential drive a robot but my robot does not stop it follows all the command related to drive forward, rotate but its does not stop.

I don't if you take it as compliment (I hope so), but you're far better than Iron Man himself! Thank you for the lesson!

I can't find the code of the project, what"s the name of the repository on Github?

In which repository is this arduino code available?

What a pro. Win 7 huh? I use Win XP.

did anyone find the code??

did you find it, i also couldn't find it

It's not because it doesn't work well. Check out the Really Useful Robot Project.

That's great work, but I can't find the project in GitHub, so pleas lead me to the project especially the Arduino code.  .... Thank you

Even if it is a cheaper lidar, that in itself is cutting most peoples budget

👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👍🏼😎

Do you still have the code from this video? I don't see it on GitHub.

trying to build my robot on Raspberry pie; C++, Python, ROS, SLAM which should I start with, how do I progress?

how did you connect the 2 ros nodes to the same roscore?

do you think a Raspberry Pi zero W can work with the same setup?

I didn´t quite get the part where you made a connection between the raspberry pi and the workstation. Did you set the ROS_MASTER_URI to the workstation and ROS_IP to the raspberry IP on the robot?

Where did you get ubuntu mate 18.04 for the pi400? I only see the latest 20.xx. I tried installing the Ubuntu mate image for rpi3 and it didn't boot.

FYI, I have compiled ros from source on a pi0w. Just the build time alone was almost 30 hours.

This is what I need I think .

Was that chromium virus?

hello from Qazaqstan!

link of 3d files

Reference components used in this nice platform, please

please share link to github repo for thsi robot. I'm havign hard time finding one

can you please tell me about motor driver , what motor driver are you using for it . i am getting motor driver with  only one pwm and one DIR  pin confg. but in your case each pin is getting directly PWM pulses.

hey i just saw the video and i couldn't find the arduino code for it

I'd like to make a similar robot able to roll around a home or business mapping the walls, ceilings, doors, windows, base trim, etc and then paint the space autonomously.

Sir, thank you for this video. If we install ubuntu 16.04 or 18.04 in Raspberry Pi will it work?  And which ROS distribution is best for beginners, who want to use raspberry pi?

Somehow I just saw the link.

I didn't publish this one because it doesn't work very well. Check out this week's video - it's a much better build and I'll be publishing it all when it works.

I am using 18.04 and Melodic.

how do you control robot by using the laptop ? i mean the software you use (is it like vnc viewer) ?

This video is really informative. I had a similar project a year ago for a University subject. However seeing how you done it makes me want to improve so so more! Thanks for sharing!

I love how you build things up one chunk and interface at a time, debugging each before moving to the next

sir i need all arduino codes which you have discussed in this video Gmail: qureshialishan63@gmail.com

can you tell me what type of encoder you are using please?

Love the series keep it up :)

Great again! What if you put the rotary encoders on non powered wheel to avoid bad encoder data when powered wheels drifted on the floor ?

If it helps anyone, the way I think of ROS topics is less "pipes" and more "pigeon-hole message box".  A ROS node can theoretically subscribe to any topic it wants and go to collect the latest data whenever required.

will you be adding mapping to open dog ?

Cool. I am trying to do something similar in my native language as well

Windows 7??? Are you crazy?

This would be op if that was a airsoft gun if you were doing airsoft

Robots will make our human society better! Please make them more and more !Just learn it if u want u will find information!Believe your self those who are reading this message.

Ha I have a 26 amp hour battery bank and it lasts for a week when charging my phone and other thing

Since you built a perfect Hulkbuster armour could you build a mark 38 also known as the igor armour?

Hey have you ever thought about making a combat robot cause I know you have a lot of robotic and mechanical skills so I thought some like combat robots would be right up your alley and I don’t mean boxing robots I mean remote controlled rc things of destruction and if you don’t know what I mean then search up some 150 grams, 1lb, and 3lb robots on the internet two get yourself a better idea

Ooo...I love this! This will be PERFECT for an autonomous lawn mower / Weed wacker! Actually I have been thinking and designing one already...LIDAR is what I am missing.

As an aspiring roboticist, I have found great inspiration and education from this channel. What is your background? Did you have formal education in mechanical and electrical engineering, or did you learn through hobby? Your Fusion360 skills are amazing

What version of Ubuntu Mate are you using?  Just pulled down bionic (18.04) both 32 and 64, and when starting my Raspberry Pi it's just black screen and red/green lights.  Tried starting it up with a different distro and everything started up fine, so don't think it's a hardware issue.

i hade an idea for your next robot, a telepresence robot that can go a fair distance from your home if needed.

Nope it's using ROS messages

Yes once it works properly!

https://youtu.be/GjHiq09Zkws

The challenge with lawns is that there's lots of open space, so the LIDAR might not see anything

@jamesbruton  Not even a toothbrush ?

@jamesbruton  I was thinking using the sonar you get from Adafruit and then once it detects, then kick on the LIDAR. That should work?

Yes just doing it mainly. Some background here: https://youtu.be/JWvH5PHKK74

Oy! James, glad to see you. I was concerned when your regular Tuesday post didn't appear on my feed. Are you on Holiday?

Link to a helpful video is in the description

Hi, I have been trying to make my self-balancing robot use ROS for a long time. This video has helped clear a lot of things up for me! I am having trouble installing ROS on an ubuntu 18 VirtualBox. I have tried multiple virtual machines with ubuntu 18 and it doesn't install. The error is about packages not installed due to unmet dependencies. Then "E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages" I also get that error when running "sudo apt update" Please help!

man you got me into Arduino, then I got interested in pi, and now you introduce ROS. Im gonna go bankrupt this way lol. I actually applied for different jobs for the sole purpose of funding this hobby xD. Thanks haha

Thank you really helpful

finally a "real" robot ;)

Looks like you are using classic ROS I think. For us ROS newbies, Would be great to understand why you chose classic ROS over ROS2.

Not really related but good for you sticking with Windows 7!  #saynotowindows10

Put it on the dog.

FYI there's a few ROS OS`s for the PI already done like this  https://downloads.ubiquityrobotics.com

How much is it for all components?

Even in future projects that don't use ROS, studying software in general will help you.  As a software engineer, I've noticed that your coding skill is nowhere near the same level as your hardware and design.

Thanks for sharing ebook

unfortunately u used ros 1 which is useless to learn compared with ros 2

Nice video! Thank you 🙏🏻

I'd like to see this turned into super roomba vacuum

Bro, finish your previous projects

I like this video with more of a software focus!

12:35 "Yes I'm using Windows 7 still, and that is absolutely fine..." No, it is definitely not "fine" That is inviting potential disaster. But I get it, so I won't bitch about it much since you should be aware why ancient OS is always a bad idea.

ROSS seems "not ready for prime time", if it requires that much work to get it working.

Thanks James for promoting robotics and ROS. You channel is amazing, There is probably any better way to learn ROS concept then to practice. I recommend to study ROS at https://www.theconstructsim.com/ .  You can run ROS and all the simulations directly in your browser. Amazing! They have also Youtube channel with ROS classes. Thanks

Is this gonna go on open dog?

Documentation and existing examples mainly.

Such as?  Why can't you see this is ongoing robotics development - what do you think I actually do in my channel?

Well it's a development platform, so if you don't want to develop then it's not for you.

@jamesbruton  JavaScript is dev platform and it requires 1/10 the amount of effort to use. I think ROSS will be replaced be something that is much easier to use. Ive been developing software for 30 years, and I've seen it happen over and over. The difficult-to-use platforms are too difficult to simplify, so they are replaced. I wouldn't invest too much into ROSS.

I am thanks, the link is in the description of this video.

hope so, but I'll be doing more wheeled development robots along side openDog

very Good!

Wowww

usb hub

I am familiar with ROS and ROS powered robotics however, I can't understand how ROS communicates with the robot wirelessly. In other words, how is telemetry data transferred.

Hi Bouton, this is a nice work on your video. I am working on a project with serial communication between Raspberry Pi and Arduino as well. However I discovered there is a half second delay for sending a letter, and 3~5 second delay for sending a string. I glad to know how would you going to solve it.

Hello sir...are provide online tutorial classes

You know it is easier to build a velocity controller on the wheels and use the differential robot kinematic model to work out the velocity vectors. Meaning your node computes the wheels velocity from the kinematic model and the Arduino simply runs the PID controller

😍😍 amazing

Could not find your code for this new project, I looked in your GIT repo to no avail.

oo-boon-too mah-tey

Ever consider doing an ROV/submersible robot? Doing optical/photogrammetric SLAM in short-visibility with an ROV seems like a really interesting challenge :D would be super useful for archeology, cheap, safe, automated photogrammetry of underwater sites.

Nice job explaining a much more complex set of abstractions than usual. I notice you don’t tend to use diagrams. Have you considered a bit of white boarding for this Ros stuff?

I like your debug setup!

You could easily build up an optical mouse style sensing apparatus to determine ground travel direction and velocity.  Whether using "mouse" type circuits or a camera and computer vision it's a straightforward way to establish accurate ground tracking.

Yes yes yes yes yes!

Very impressive.  As usual....

ROS seems overly complicated, like.. its a lot to learn that doesn't seem needed. It represents a serious time investment, and i'm still not quite sure what the payoff is.

which motor driver it that?

so this ROS is nothing more than MQTT broker/client libraries? Seem a bit too much to dedicate two computers to it.

When I was at University I started out studying MechE, but was particularly interested in robotics, so I was curious if maybe software was a better route. I managed to get a job in the Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Lab for a summer where I had to learn to work with ROS for 3 months. After that, I was 100% confident MechE was the right choice for me! Even as someone who knows their way around Python and a bit of C, that was a gauntlet of fire... Even other people I know who are software developers tell me they hate working with ROS.

It's using the WiFi in my house. My workstation and the Pi are just connected to the network.

@jamesbruton  thank you so much!

Yes it possibly is. Part 2 gets even more hectic and then I'll be taking what I learned to build a much better V2 from the hardware up.

Wait for part 2  ;-)   There will be a V2 robot which is much better and that will be published.

Yes I'm doing research for that now.

I was hoping I could do it with the lidar...

Mostly to use ready made nodes for mapping, navigation and a bunch of other stuff.

@jamesbruton  thank you for the reply. That is kind of my point though, it seems more like a hurdle to overcome in order to get to the good stuff, when those functions could just be independent libraries usable in any system. I don't really see what ROS itself adds. I'm sure it must save time down the road somehow, and I'll figure it out as we follow along your adventure. Thanks so much for sharing all of this with us.

Use one then

@jamesbruton  it was not a criticism. I didn't mean to sound like one :)

You're totally right. ROS is, in essence, absolutely just an IPC tool.  But the research robotics community has standardized around it to a remarkable degree, and it inherently encourages functionality to be broken out into atomic nodes that are easily shared and repurposed.  The result is that in practice, ROS allows you to get a robot up and running and doing fairly complex tasks with a bare minimum of work, just because so much code is compatable with the system and freely shared / documented in a centralized, officially supported place. So it's often talked about as much more than an IPC tool, but that talk is really referring to the ROS community more than the tool itself.

I had been trying to get into ROS and couldn’t find my way into it. Thanks to you I have now started in RoboIgnite Academy. This series has just become more fascinating! What an amazing display of software abilities.

For a rolling vehicle on a flat surface the static traction (tires not slipping) is solely determined by the coefficient of friction of the tires and the force (weight) applied to those tires.  This is because as the contact patch is increased in size the relative pressure is decreased proportionally and therefore grip remains the same.  If you need more traction and wear isn't a concern you can just switch to a softer durometer gripper tire. If wear is a concern then a softer durometer and a wider tire.  This all gets way more complicated when considering something like a race car going around a track with contact patches changing size dynamically, uneven road surfaces, changing coefficient of friction with temperature and track surface. But for slow robots things are nice and simple.

I read ROS as ROV and watched about 5 minutes before I started wtfing lol.

Thumbs up for the crystal clear explanation.. Waiting for part 2 🤘

You are so smart it blows my mind.

How to kit up your mums carpet robot vacum cleaner  🤦‍♂️

Congrats on getting through that James - I know how hard ROS is to learn! This is very exciting to see this developed.

If you are limiting the speed of the motors, then could the encoders be attached directly to the motors? You said you didn’t because they were moving too fast (unregulated/limited) but now that they are, is it feasible?

Just subscribed Came from Mark Rober

Fantastic coverage of ROS. Looking forward to the next video on this

so interesting! ty ... looking forward for next part

I am disappointed in you.  This isn't me attacking you; this is me letting you know you should be doing better. People look to you to learn, but I can see why people might get confused.  I've only made a few robots, so perhaps I don't know what I'm talking about. Then again, I'm only basing my suggestions on things you have said yourself, and things I'm actually familiar with.  When teaching how to do something, do it right. If you run into problems, show how to do it right.   Using the wrong tool for the job is never the right way to teach a new concept.  Once you've identified the problem, you just said "we'll build a better robot in the future, but for now we're just going to carry on".   You're only using it to teach people how easy is... right? And when you run into issues, you say contradictory things, and work around issues in confusing ways instead of fixing the root cause.  The integral component in your PID may have fixed overall position accuracy, but it added behavior that is confusing to people not familiar with PID systems. It also doesn't look as good, and really was only a workaround for poor design. Lazy.   "Even though I'm trying to drive it at 1/2 a meter per second, the code on the Arduino is constraining it so it only goes slow, but I think that's probably fast enough for mapping and navigation".  The very next thing you say: "It should drive at the velocity we say"  So why not tell it to go slower? Or fix the issue with the Arduino code?  Please stop being confusing, and do it correctly. If you can't make the robot do what you're telling it to do, don't tell it to do what you can't make it do.   Or put in the extra work to make the robot work  properly.   If the problem with the encoder is the Mega couldn't handle the speed, then why not use a Teensy? I know you already had a Mega plugged in... but that Mega is one of the reasons it's being so terrible! Keeping the thing that is holding you back makes no sense at all!  I'm disappointed.

9:54 i think you are a better programmer than me so I would like to ask you if there is a "fault" with switch case because you are using else if

Man my boss would be so happy if I commented my code like James lol

Hey buddy your work is awesome :D

Awesome

VirtualBox is an open source alternative to VMware Player.

This will be the best series ever!  Just read a comment about the VM for ROS. It's not really the best option. neither is the other workstation xD.   You can switch to ROS2 which can run on windows (it's newer than ROS  and does not have much documentation and support as ROS so it's a good step to start with ROS). Or you can use dual boot. you will get both windows and ubuntu running on the same machine (you get to choose which OS to load when booting).

Awesome video! Any chance of a future VR project? You did some great ones in the past. Wandering if it was possible to create a really cheap and light strap on exoskeleton for full body tracking without any external detection systems...

I've got always the problem with episodes that include a lot of talking about coding because I just know basic english. But thats of course no critiscm, it's just the reason I prefer the videos with focus on building the actual robot

Excellent! You covered a semester in a few minutes. I will recommend your videos to students.

He should put a biting head on it

thanks, part 2 is a bit more hectic!

It's my experience that anything that is hard to learn is not worth learning. Eventually a competitor, that is easy to learn, will replace it, and all your effort will be in vain.

Systems Planet Unless you’re trying to be innovative. The competitor would have had to learn that which was hard to learn in order to make it easier to learn

from experience it's on the edge of the MEGA being able to read  them accurately.

James Bruton ah just curious. Thanks for awesome content dude !

The next one is not as straight forward ;-)

@jamesbruton  Ive been working on a tracked rover and looking at ROS. This video unlocked a couple issues I was stuck on. Im using the same LIDAR  you are so Im going to be following very closely

Yes there will be another version, when I've done this one. This one works, but it could be better.  Yes I did tell it go slower to show the speed control works, it's right there after the piece you highlighted.  This is ongoing development as always. Unsubscribe otherwise please.

@Zenith, consider yourself lucky to be intelligent enough to understand what is being taught here. I'm a slow learner. If it is interesting, then I will remain engaged. Here I am. There is enough work just to edit video content. I am a patreon. Thank you James for putting this out there. You have my support. Zenith, thank you for comments to improve the content.

do you mean in the code from the Arduino website?

I think he'd be disappointed if you coded your code like James though.

I'd certainly be disappointed. Needs more comments, all over.

It's not fully open source, and Oracle's been chasing people down to pay for the PUEL licenced extension pack. If you want open source, go with Xen or qemu.

I'm usually sad when you work on projects that aren't your spectacular robot dogs! But I love the idea of one of these on the dog that I'm going to be even more thrilled if it works out really well!!

Please do something with the hiss in the background. You can use audacity to delete that noise floor. As a headphones user, this is destroying me. It's very notable on the phone too

This what am ı looking for, thanks!

How do these LIDAR thingys work outdoors around foliage and other obstacles not composed of hard flat surfaces?

The videos is really great!! Thank  you for the information.  I'm already working on ROS I have connected RPlidar and Arduino Mega to Jetson nano. The /dev/ttyUSB0 and 1 continuously switches between Mega and Nano causes error. How can I define particular port to Mega and Nano. Or How can i read wheather its a Mega or Nano. Please if possible mention the same in the next video.  Thank you.

2 interrupts per encoder? is that wrong or is there some advantage over using an interrupt and a normal pin and polling the non interrupt pin on interrupt?

How do you even have money to do these?

WOOUAAH Great your new video!  I've always loved tinkering like you, I made a project where I automate my shutter and I filmed myself I send you the link if you want to watch my video https://youtu.be/1WqT-bMTRio

Tiny nitpick: I think it's pronounced "mah-tay" (as in the tea hackers like) not "mate" as in... "mates". https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MATE_(software) That said, I can't wait until these projects get combined and you've got Opendog V2 walking around your house :)

I’m looking forward to your video on ROS with a laser scanner for mapping. I just ordered a laser scanner but I have no idea how to use it yet!

Dude! Your all over the place. You start projects and start another one and don’t finish them. You keep people hanging.

Thank you really helpful.

you should make a channel for this stuff that's called Ros Creations

Hello James. I'm a software developer who has made this project to remotely control any drone using the mobile network and VR tech. The project can work with any land drone and I'm working right now to make it work on a flying drone. The Python source code and all the necessary utilities and explanations are on the Github project. I'm not really an expert in robotics but in software development, specially mobile and VR development, so that's why channels like yours are so useful to me. If you are interested in my project just let me know, I know that it can work perfectly for your ROS Robot project. My project's Github: https://github.com/EstebanGameDevelopment/RemoteRobotController

There's a cmd_vel publisher in Android store called 'ros control'. Which means you can use your phone to steer it if you want

Use cssh to connect to sets of servers and run the same command on all of them at the same time.

Ugh! If else statements. Have you heard of switch statements? Switch cases would be better for your long if else chained statements. https://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference.SwitchCase#:~:text=Like%20if%20statements%2C%20switch..,values%20specified%20in%20case%20statements.

Why are you still using the arduino ide? With such complex codes it may be more elegant to switch to something like vscode and platformio

google Ubuntu pronunciation

Graduating soon(ish), COVID willing, and I can't help but thank you for your awesome work which has been a huge part of what inspired my to pursue engineering. Cheers James.

Why don't you delete it yourself it it's that bad to you? I don't hear it at all.

Hi, you can write a small udev rule to assign a given 'device' name to your USB serial device (Arduino or else). Link:  https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/66901/how-to-bind-usb-device-under-a-static-name

@jcugnoni  Thank you sir !! I'll try the same

There are two phases on each one?

It's usually all part of one thread. Clearly the ROS project will eventually go on OpenDog to add automated navigation similar to the Boston Dynamics Spot robot. Almost everything he does is essentially an R&D venture so he can learn and explore a topic that will later be integrated into one of his bigger projects.

I tried it but it won't go forwards?

Are you talking about the code I got from the Arduino website?

It's not that complicated

from personal experience - do not do ROS and virtual machines, it was a nightmare getting it to work in Uni

Please stop saying you-bun-too :)  It's pronounced oo-boon-too. k thanks :)

18:15 "It is Captain Speed, as I say..."  lol

What about creating your own discord server? It would be nice to have place where a bunch of your fans could help each other with their projects.....

It would be interesting to hear why you're adding in the Arduino Mega and not driving the motors from the pi itself.  (Not critiquing what you've done, interested in hearing your analysis of pros Vs cons)

Hi,I can not find the python code,very good work

Loved the video

I've been using ROS for a few years now, and I'm stoked to see one of my favourite youtubers also getting into it. Can't wait to see  the openDog doing cool autonomous stuff using ROS.

Great video! I appreciate the detail.

Do it more about ROS!!!!))  Does it really ROS don't works in Raspbian?

can you please make a more detailed video on setting up the pi and the remote system

you are the best

no James i wont judge you for still using Win7.

Raspian is built off of Debian (Which Ubuntu is also built off of) and everything Debian already uses Aptitude as its package manager, the thing that changes which packages are available for the system is the architecture of the processor the package is compiled for and the source list for APT. As far as I can see ROS is available on Raspian by default, so I wonder what went wrong when you tried it?

When open dog v2 can walk properly he should put a lidar scanner on it

This series will become the most view robotics realated  video on youtube crystal clear explnation

Neat!😄

Awesome 🌹

this is how skynet is made

Hello

Yes some other things don't display properly in Rviz also, some time I will build another workstation.

@jamesbruton  I think ROS for windows might be a thing soon, might be worth looking into

“Capped in speed” heh

I have a facebook group (yes I know it's not the same)

Mainly because I'm better at Arduino and most of my projects have been Arduino based.  That said, I also prefer handling hardware like encoders without the o/s in the way.

@jamesbruton  Use the Teensy then... same code, faster processor. You already know this though...  and could get the encoders working at high speed, which means you could put them on the correct side of the gearing, which means you wouldn't need to do the integral hack with the PIDs, and if you also put a thicker tire on the wheel, you could have made it work pretty much perfectly, and the whole video would have made things a lot easier to understand.  Obviously. (And people stop saying obviously when things might not be obvious to people. Obviously not everyone knows as much as you do, or comes so the obvious thing to do is not make them feel stupid. But obviously you already know that.)

thanks, that is the eventual aim.

can you suggest some free tutorials

Same here !

@aryaanand759   do the ros tutorials!

It works, but you have to compile it yourself. And you don't want to do that, believe me.

But windows 10 is nice :(

Win7 is the last version of windows that you actually can own. After that, Microsoft basically owns your machine, installing and removing anything they want and taking away your permission to change things. I recommend switching to Linux.

It also won't let me install ROS kinetic on Ubuntu 18.04 or Melodic on 16.04 by default. So this was the easiest way to do it. Bear in mind that my experience in limited.

Yes! OpenDog 2 with full autonomy would be epic!

Maybe one of those OpenNI depth cameras, too.  I think Orbec is the company that makes the "Astra" one I've seen and liked the look of before.

thanks!,  Part 2 gets a bit more hectic though ;-)

@jamesbruton  Are you allright? everything ok? no video this week ? :(

I hope so. It'll be easy to defeat then.  A real existential threat wouldn't have all the issues that required confusing workarounds in the code, and would actually move at the speed it wanted to move at.

Hello

Pls Pls make more vids about this topic! ❤️

Hi lol

Hey

Awesome. Correct me if I'm wrong, but ROS essentially looks like a standardized communication API for robotics. Can't wait to see more and what useful robots you can make with this!

Great update video Great update project Thanks for sharing 👍😀

To be fair the resources at http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials are well worth working through. by the time you make it to http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/ExaminingServiceClient you have all the knowledge required to "understand" what James is talking about here.  In /some/ depth if you actually build and follow through the code examples as the wiki suggests. Certainly enough to follow along so far. Hope that helps.

First! LUL ,   Oh baby. You the man James.    This series is the best

Can't stop hearing it as ROSberry Pi :D

There is more coming

Pretty much, the main advantage for me is that there are so many ready-made nodes that can immediately make the robot intelligent.

thanks!

thanks!

I hear it as “green needle.”

Rosberry Pi is the Ros image for raspberry pi 4

