Great project, congratulations. Can this drive a PWM driver over ch 1 and 2? Thanks.

Can raspberry pi used instead of jetson nano, pls reply

great Demonstration! from where did u purchase ODrive Controller, is their Any seller from India. Plzz share Contact if any. Thanks

sir i was looking for autonomous navigation system and i found your video as a best one i am also working on a autonomous navigation system can you help me in that or how can i contact you?

we could also do this with Rasperry PI easy right? or why choosing Jetson Nano Specifically?

What all i need to study to make a project like this?

Bro i was making a autonomous wheelchair as my final year project can you give me some advice or suggestions relating to my project plz

can we use JYQD-V7.3E  insted of odrive controllers??

Price of. Odrive??

Thank you for showcasing your project. But please, for beginners, can you share detailed instructions on how to reproduce this easily? It would be well appreciated. I am new to robotics and would like to try this out as a good hands-on experience. Thank you in advance for your consideration.

Awesome 👌

Hello, how can I use the ros odrive package to write hardware interfac e node? Thank you

How did you able to disable the half of the lidar to not detect that piece of carton behind it as obstacle?

Can you give us your GitHub repository for this robot?

Which model lidar can been use sir

Dear Sir, amazing project, thanks for sharing! greeting!

hello bro! how to update odometry for robot (encoder ticks?)?

Nice project! how did you merge the lasers?

Can you list down the components of everything you have for your robot? I need to get them.

Hey my friend , i have question about the GitHub code i'm asking if code is for version 1 or version 2 ? Thanks u do great work

Yes Raspberrypi can be used for this project.

Better performance than raspberry pi

I'm in the same boat.  Using Jetson Nano on a hexapod.  There's a channel called Articulated Robotics that have made some really beginner friendly tutorials on ROS, RVIZ, Gazebo and general introduction into the field.  Aside from custom programming scripts, the hardest part about this is just getting everything setup and comunicating.

Thank you very much. I will check it out @Damaged7

There is a minimum valid distance (0.1 meters) for the lidar. Any scan feedback within 0.1m is not be considered. That is how the carton is not detected. Hope this answers your question.

hello sir, Can you help me to doing this project. i need help

Hello friends, thanks for your great video, Is it oke ? if i take the BLDC of balance car  to use for this driver

This is a great robot and thank you for share your knowledge. Can you give me a contact or source to purchase odrive bldc driver as mine is not working.Thank you for your support brother.

Great job. I was going through your GitHub repo , I didn't find any implementation of pushbutton and addressable led in the code. Can you  please share the back ground code for both Arduino and ros part . Regards

I absolutely  love  your  robot good  job

Please can I get your contact ??( Whatsapp.. linkedin.. )

I have an ohmni robot and I don't know how to move it using lidar and map to dodge obstacles. Can you guide me please. When entering rviz how to move the robot and move to the points we send the robot to

Where did u buy jetson nano here in India?

hello brother i have one question what is Arduino use for ? i see Arduino on your robot

Amazing project! I commend your passion to robotics. Thanks for sharing your knowledge. By the way, can you give me the specification of BLDC hub motors as well as the hall encoders. Thank you very much my friend!

Dear Sir, Can you send me your mail ID, we require some guidance for our company.  Thank you,

Nice, can you make a small video on how robot is connected to laptop wirelessly.

Was patiently waiting for your video, its been a while, nice robot 🙂

Thanks for sharing your robot project. Very good implementation and presentation.

Awesome 🔥where did you get odrives from  in india?

Super glad you made a new video on this. I've been referring to your old video for my own bot. Great work!

Awesome robot bro 🥲 , very well tuned

Do you find help friend?😊

Hey do you try this project and i work with you?

​ @jtx5868 are you working now on this project??

In my understanding, an Arduino controls addressable leds and push buttons

Also, the specification of O-drive motors. Thanks a lot!

Hub motor comes with inbuilt hall encoder. Below is the link https://roboticsdna.in/product/e-bike-motor-controller-6-inch-24v-for-hub-motor-350w-with-controller/  Odrive: https://odriverobotics.com/shop/odrive-v36

@roboticsandroslearning8232  Thank you very much my friend!

@roboticsandroslearning8232  Hello my friend, can you give us detailed instruction how to properly configure and implement the ODrive on ROS? Thanks!

​ @robotos319  did you find the details instructions of implementation of odrive with ROS?

I have replied to this query on other video. Didn't that help ?

You recive any help?

I bought it through a friend.

