How long is your arm? 💪

You should start a company where you have custom installments for that arm and it can come in different colors and sizes depending on what you’re using it for you could make millions

Mechatronics

My dad works at some place he makes computer chips I saw a robot arm as tall as a door and as wide as a tv in action grabbing things and stuff

11.54 Bro dopped the hardest transition ever and thought we wouldn’t notice

What is the name of the software used in 3:06?

First time seeing your Channel, and I absolutely love it

Made for YouTube.

The video was os entertaining! Kudos mate!

Pro tip: ChatGPT is really good at converting code. You usually just need to fix some minor errors, if any.

Bro is Tony stark

idea, control it with vr

get some cameras around the room then write a code that does simple function like really helping you like when u ask it to hold some thing then it will use the cameras to figure where it is then goes to hold it

Que bosta kkkk, achei que o cara iria levar isso mais a sério, mas acabou fazendo um braço robótico articulado de brinquedo kkkkkkkk

Pretty cool man! Gives me portal vibes!

You know you could use ropes Help the arm Go up and down Use like a pulley mechanism

where sauce?

3D files pleaaaase

I'm not an expert but could you use an arduino?

What application do you use to solve the IK at 3:04 ?

4

ok

1

which one tho

21 inches

42 meters.

about 17

about 40000000000 μm

400000000000000 meters world recored

721.

Somewhat long

2 kg

1786 kb

Long enough

5 meter

Not too long but pretty strong

To long

just like my pen... i mean leg i mean leg

Cheese burger

-2 :c

34"

yeah that's cool, but give it  A.I so it can mess with you

12 km

give it some eyes

2cm

15kg

7

depends on temperature ;-)

Your useless robot arm is waste of materials and waste a lot of energy which spended in google datacenter for sharing that garbage for killing time of the users around the world. That project is not ECO frendly at all. Why you doing that?

@vadim: looser

More

@tronnzy3692   721 millimeters?

16".

20

Pi inches

Are you using PID controllers? Do you want a more fluent movement?

2

you should add some AI, or some code that responds to voice commands, so that it can actually pass you any object you ask it, and also make a claw, LOL

my 3rd one? uhh about 4 inches

About the same length as my other arm

@vmened   you tipping this comment is not ECO frendly at all

89cm

2

long

Idk

longer than yours

are you from the netherlands or belgium

Average

long

At least 1 arm long

as lost as a fricking planet

40 meters

2cm oh wait arm 3 inches

1'11

@leapacho  bro what 💀

Longer than your pe-

Hmm depends. When its bent it stands around 27.8 meters and weighs 35lbs When its stretched however it can be as long as 57.4 meters and can weigh 56lbs

@Kanigo29 sus

Ones world beam

6 feet

@user-PG13  oh u sussy baka

0.4 light days

30 inches

24,736

1000  Also wouldn't you say you built glados? Lol

52 minutes

26in/66cm

Whatever half of 5’3 is

@alecboi777  actually measure it

i know that bag it from a dutch market called action cuz i live in the nederlands

3.5 inches if you include the hand

1000000000000000000 kilometers long

id say a couple hundred thousand meters

Witch one I have 3 😏

Bread

Idk

About 6 and a half inches

Don’t let them know your next move: more then 1.

hopefully longer so i can hit before it hits me xD

69420 nanometer

I can probably broke my PC when i move it around a little...

More than 15cm

Ayo

Fleshlight mod

miles

N/A

its not

orange spaghetti

100m

BTW good video 👍👍

Imagine this was just a way to show off his new hair cut😂🤣

GLados?

do a mini glados can be moved with this system.

i would end up using this arm for something else.. if you know what I mean...

you could also use some planetary gears to smooth out the arms movement at the cost of max speed

you gotta unclog your nozzle and turn up extrution ratio by like 3-5 % and your print will bw way cleaner

Which software you used to control the robot ?

can you tell me where to get the code and 3d models?

If I had that robot I would probably be disemboweled from saying harder or faster too much

He needs a claw

Very cool! I’m researching building my first robot arm and this does a great job of showing the challenges without being discouraging.  I love the idea of putting it on the ceiling. Combined with the boxing glove it could be the most hilarious Looney Tunes security system. Just have it drop down and start wailing on intruders.

I joined it, thank you. I fully understand how much have you spent on editing.

Can I have one 🥺

robots are cool

What are study in universty?

Add sensors to it you can control it with hand movements or sines to stop it and start it and do the thing you need it to do and also grab

Twink obsession?

I’m think of that stupid arm from iron man that tiny hits

J’aime bien ce petit accent francophone 😂 super projet au passage 😃

Bro made is own scooper XD

How did you program the pca9685-module with raspberry pi? I am trying to make a robot and would love if you could answer my question

Make it glados with chatgpt and ai voice

give it neurotoxin

do vocal commands

Could you use electro magnets to change out the hand

May I ask what is at 8:07

jolie accent et merci pour cette vidéo

portal 2 reference

the thumbnail looks like that arm from flamingo’s video

Got this video from some "I'm feeling lucky" youtube thing and to be honest, im not disappointed

You should make different holders for the wrist joints

am i the only one who thinks "glados"?

now make glad0s

All you guys whi creates new using 3d printers, engineering and coding is awesome How to become like you, can you recommend basic books and example pet-projects?

so basically glados

Hi, Interesting work Thanks for sharing Regards, Jean-François

That cliff hanger at the end is keeping me on my toes man

Get stronger servos

Meet the engineer

Ironman moment

the goodpufferfish one

G.L.A.D.O.S

you should add face tracking to the camera so it can follow you around the room

hand free jack hoff

This man is going to create GLaDOS

Add a microphone and speaker and install an ai

Now make an AI for it

great, now turn it into glados

Add AI to it

BRO HOW DOES THIS GUY HAVE 80K SUBS HE SHOULD HAVE MILLIONS

Great work man. Which software are you using for design ?

Give it a gun

if you walk into someone room and they have a mechanical arm on the ceiling you know that person is big brain

Thingie too slow, Thingie not strong. Need bigger thingie. Thingie too fast, thingie too strong. Need slightly weaker thingie. Thingie Perfect speed. Thingie Strong enough. Now for next thingie.

What Is the name of the rotating cable?

Make  Glados OUT OF that arm

Dit is best grappig maat ik krijg een beetje Buurman en Buurman vibes.

amazing

You almost made a sentient robot btw make it sentient

Those tiny servos aren’t gonna give you much torque, there won’t be many uses for an arm like this.  By the way I think you need to clean your extruder and adjust the print settings, I’m seeing a lot of partial clogs in the 3D prints and those support overhangs look bad, you need to fiddle with this some more and figure out the right settings for your printer.

does anyone know what program this is 2:08

haha, merci!

Unity or blender

I wanna see if you can make a robot out of a keyboard

Robot Arm with camera and tracking so you got a camera mount that follows you

make it a GLADoS costume!😭

do you think you can do a tracking camera mount for the arm?

I ruik netterlens

Глэдос: начало

Give it an ai and make it something like that the computer from star trek

Bro just built a mini fnaf 5 scooper 💀

But does everything hangs on the servo axes now(and some 3d part support)? Normally you would use bearings for that. 😋

Glados?

How can you make it even smoother and ?

Where did you get the sliprings from?

About 9:50 the arm tries to break itself and escape then realizes it is stuff and tries again to break itself

make it do a backflip...

lol fk yes!

bros making blade runner 2049 atificial gf IRL

does anybody know what software he was using to simulate the arm and design, was that blender?

We are highly impressed with the design and functionality of your robot.

hey Wonderfull work!! i would like to know if you can share the script for the inverse kinematic?

Hello , can someone tell if this is a 5 DOF robot ? And how to calculate the degrees of freedom ?  I made one with my friends and we don’t have the knowledge to do those physics calculations:)

probably on amazon, it was quite a while ago, they're nothing special

You should add a piston just before the rotating end bit, so you can extend the arm to reach around the room without it taking up a ton of space

You can attach a helper hand to it😅❤

you have massive companies making robot arms and selling them for 10000s and this guy made one in his bedroom. absolute genius.

12 m long

make it into a movable glados cosplay for it please

pov: portal glados creators         no for real,dont give it an free will ai

Hey, heads up, the thing Jelle forgot when the Skyrim text said "Jelle fogot it." is when the Skyrim text said "Jelle will remember that;" what he remembered, or rather forgot, was to not make the arm clip through the ceiling.

11:58  the cleanest transition I have seen in my entire life…

You can code AI for your robot so it can control the arm.

imagine chatgpt controlling these hand

give it a GLaDOS head (from Portal game) and make it look at you at all times.

Now make it look like GLaDOS

whats the point if you have to move it yourself

Reminds 90-s tv film homewrecker

ai

The un-intentional symbolism of the city peace being taken by hands of "that flag" is amazing!

GlaDOS

what tool do you use to design the robot?

Whats your accent?

It kind of flops around because your servos are way underpowered for what you're trying to do. 😆

evrybody gangsta until Real life GLaDOS becomes evil

(im not tryna offend the robot okay?)

4:05 that is fun 😂

1:00 “Half a dome” I think you mean half a sphere.  Half a sphere is a hemisphere, and you’d call that a dome, though I think the definition of a dome is technically different than that.

chiek gedaan joh

this video was just amazing!

This needs a camera with AI human recognising tracking people around the room. if you use face recognition it can identify 'friend' or 'intruder' then you could switch to a water gun or nerf attachment

Weird place to put it.  At least put it between you and the fridge so it can grab you a beer.

Do you come from the netherlands

iron man

11:22 MMMMMM SPAGHETTI

Make it your camera guy and give it the ability to always be facing you in the room even as your moving

This channel is beginning to turn into an engineering channel and frankly, I don't hate it. Keep it up Jelle! I love seeing all the cool stuff you create :D

next thing you know it tries to kill you by releasing deadly neurotoxins

Bro you are hella underrated! the quality of these videos is sublime

Gentleman, you are fucking awesome.

5:28 I can't believe i laughed at this.

Sell this to Brazzers‼️‼️‼️

gav

This was a triumph! I'm making a note here, 'huge success'.

Nvidia omniverse rl + chatgpt

how much did that cost you?

I got tired of sitting behind my desk all day 😅

@JelleVermandere  That is also boring if you do it to much

that looks like it could be glados from portal lol

make it voice activated

"Meet the Engineer"

Lmao i made a similar arm for a rover and this video popped up on my recommended

At 10.03 the robots whete taking control

You should use a gear with motors, for smooth and powerful movements.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=avCWDDox1nE

Imagine this whit chatgpt

I would just get married 😭👍🥹

Ah yes Micheal Reeves, the tazer man

u mean it can help u do stuff anything...🤨🤨

Perfectly normal thing to build 👍

Hmmm... stares at my ceiling

Give it face tracking

gij komt van België

Pur GLADOS from portal on it

The robot  is cool

Yooooo you so underrated bru. Nice video tho, enjoyed a lot

you should smooth out the arm movement

Now connect the big arm to the model arm and make them match each others movements. Ex.: You move the model arm and the big arm mimics it.

You won’t believe next weeks video

@JelleVermandere  Damn bro, don't get my hopes up.

I am so in love with your channel 😍 I appreciate all the work you are putting into your videos

What kind of program do you use for 3D modeling?

“Meet the engineer”

Es ce que l'ordinateur va buge apres être passer a Windows 10?

I would stick it to the ceiling and turn it to a GLadOS puppet

I am impressed by both your engineering skills and video editing skills, great job bro!

Bro what is your education how you learnt this stuff

fnaf 5 scooper

Turn it into GLaDOS  At least for halloween

you should put a camera in it and code it to follow you

Add a nerf gun on it

Very cool project! It was super cool to watch and seamed easier than I thought it would. Of course that doesn’t mean it was easy. You could add rotary encoders to check if your position is accurate and have it correct itself autonomously

put some robot finger in it so it can hold stuff widouth the adapters

imo, using a raspberry pi is kinda overkill

It should have been GlaDOS

But what can it reach? There's nothing knthe ceiling, don't take me wrong, it's really cool, but it won't hand you a hammer. Also can you control it by speaking? If not, definitely add that.

Subbed! Really high quality and fun to watch!

I love your videos but your dramatic voiceovers have a "parents are sleeping, house has thin walls" type vibe.

attach a camera, make ai pour water for you with this arm

+++++++++ love how you explain

Blender, I have a tutorial on it on my channel

@JelleVermandere  Thanks, I'll watch it!

The internet! It’s full of wonders

I imagine david attenborough has the same problem in his house 😅

@JelleVermandere  Is the arm still installed after a year?  Also wanna point out effort, you reply faster on a video from a year ago than some of my friends do to my texts lol

make it find cup and pour

Sweet.

Hey what's the measurements of the cross section of your links

W video

GLaDOS has entered the chat

it would be good automate robot arm holding TV to always face you :P

glados

You should program it to grab tools when you say a key word like, "robo arm, grab wrench" and it will give it to you

Just found your channel  Good content bro  subscribed

gostei muito de sua abordagem ao mostrar sua experiencia em construir seu robô ! Parabéns pelo trabalho e pelo canal !

7:04 The ignorance is strong with this one (You can easily install Multiple Desktop Enviroments and Most  Distros come with one preinstalled)

Love how you go into more detail and keep viewers following along the project. Definite sub from here

This is super cool!! Is the tutorial available for this???

Give him artifictional intelligens...

Great video all everything.

i think this is awesome work man. Keep up the good work

Buying from amazon promotes labor abuse.

power puff bot xD

Now just give it glados body and voice 👌 lol

Please tell me how do you make stuffs like these. Can you provide any tutorial

0:42 I honestly expected a "raspberry pi" joke here😅

8cm diameter

nah

@ralphwiggum1203  Yeah, sorry , I'll explaine better: in civilized countries, what amazon does is labor abuse.

@Mirtguitar  I know exactly what you are referring to but just using amazons services (when typically there is little else on offer) is not advocating labour abuse

@ralphwiggum1203  I know it's a complex idea to understand: if amazon abuse its workers and you buy from amazon, you are promoting the abuse that amazon does over its workers. You can find anything in internet, you don't need amazon.

a tutorial aint going to help do a robotics course

played out joke tbh

make a funtioning claw

i want to build same for my engineering project can you help me ?

Attach your robot arm to a gantry one frame so it can go any where

I have an idea: what about making it possible to control this with VR or at least in the same way with some kind of controller that makes the arm move like yours?

GlaDOS?

You should give the robot a ai

0:40 I thought he was 3d printing something for a sec. 💀💀

Put clock stickers on the ceiling. 'robot, what time is it?'

Add ai

manz got jokes XD

Next turn the arm into GladOS

Did you make it?

you should have used packages with  ros for motion planning and stuff

This dude is the next Tony Stark

looks like gmod props

GLaDOS

The for your time Jelle

Voice controls!

Looks like something from portal lol

What college did you go to? Computer science or Computer engineering

uhm... Architecture 😅

@JelleVermandere  what...

what kind of your servo  are you using?

Until it starts trying to choke you

now replace with an operating Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System and add neurotoxin canisters behind your wall where it can access it and release it into your room.

I swear everyone needs one of these..

Jelle Stark

did aney ome else see mical reevs

Inverse kinematics tutorial please

This could be used as a security camera thing.

Put some cheap beams in your room set on each side then program it to track you

Which engineering you are formed?

this makes me think of gladose from portal

Tony Stark in the making

Let's make a small robot arm to control the big one.

quality

I like how he used Michael Reeves’s surgery robot as an example xD

wow i love .. this is my dream work and Job machatronic and robot

This video was so funny to watch. Clever, entertaining and handsome. What else to ask? 😁

What’s the book’s name ? :,(

Just aweomesssnesss …. That ppg parody 😂😂😂😂

add computer vision to it.

every joint has another one, because the higher ones need a smaller load. They’re all from amazon

@JelleVermandere  i know your idea, but i want to ask about type of servo are you using, DC motor servo or step mortor, does it need to feedback?

Sorry, I made it up

@JelleVermandere  do you recommend any ? :,(

Fantastic video! Love the humor, creativity and production quality, keep it up!

Where can I buy that wire connector?

Its a shame you didnt actually hit anything with it. You just dropped it on the temple...

Alarm clock, booby trap, swing a cat toy around, turn your lights on and off ( if it can reach ) play catch from computer chair ( need some tracking like the auto dartboard ) hold a flashlight while you look at your car engine, then yell at it for not holding it right.

3d model please 🥺🥺

Robot arm will return

give it ai then hands.

Hello, what college major is this?

to when you made auto clining bot?

Glados be looking pretty fine these days

Please, let me know the name of the 3D software,to simulate robot´s movements minute 3:05. Thanks a lot

Walle

THE FUTURE IS NOW..

Hello, and again. Welcome to the aperture science computer aided enrichment center.

This is the first video I have seen from your channel and I love it. Subscribed

This is 8 months old but you should definitely make a glove to use with the arm for videos and such

How about "Serve-O-Mat"?

glados

Now add a wheatly core to it

😂. Great video and even greater project. I enjoyed every minute 👍.

I think unity

id love to see programmable movements, so you can easily set lists of go-to's and when to execute them

How did this guy go from smol unity game to FRICKEN ROBOT ARM

Add integrated cameras and facial tracking and hand tracking program it so it recognises your gestures and have it grab stuff you offer it. Also  have it be "aggressive" to strangers.

Thank you for this Jelle, I had a blast watching :)

Very underrated! Great work my friend. You deserve at least 1m subs for this quality.

Great video, Cant wait to check out the rest of the channel. Love the effort put into this. The arm looks great. Has It been usefull?

Hello, and welcome. To the Aperture Science Enrichment Center.

turn it into GLaDOS

I hope you learned about kill switches from this

nice video

What should you do? Well did you play game called Portal?   Glados!

Can I get the 3d printable files for the robot ?  Please Even I want to make one

make it so if you attach a camera to it that it will make the camera follow you

I’m pretty sure there’s a reason industrial robots can’t close at the elbow prolly something to do with safety when I was leaving ab them that’s all we ever heard ab

I thought this man had like 1million subs!

Will you share the python code?

do you have a share file for the 3d print part ?

What's the reference of the servomotors please ?

It reminds me of GLaDOS. I hope it doesn't become sentient...

Have you finished the cleaning robot?

Nope, bit it was fun to make atleast 😅

Up next a robot that cleans up all the mess this robot creates.

Would be really cool to use that arm with a zero g mode, where you grab it and move it where you want it

9:35 in the video, there is some kind of plastic or foam being cut by a knife, anyone able to help me find what this stuff is?? I've just gotten into arduino and would love to look into that stuff for prototyping, I'm currently using lego haha works great though

Lol it’s like the scooping room in fnaf

Can't wait to watch more of your videos! This is my first one and I've subscribed!

I've been bouncing the idea of my head of making my own GLaDOS from the game Portal. Thanks for the video.

People be tony stark these days 👍

9:50 I appear to have invented a knife welding tentacle.

I am building a robot arm. It would be helpful if you could send me the links to the products and 3D print designs you used

pro tip, when debugging allways make bir red emergency shutdown button

Hi

OH I WANT ONE OF THESE

Hha nice i like yout humor keep go it is amazing

man that robot arm is pretty sick awesome job

How much did it cost?

This man is tony stark in real life

Can anyone tell me what tools he used

The skill is power puff girls xddd

put a fan attachment

Clean ur room

it's called foam core or foam board, basically cardboard with foam in the middle

@JelleVermandere  ay thanks I figured it was something like that

Everything…

@JelleVermandere  yes everything:P i wanna make it too

a screwdriver, a hammer, a saw, tweezers, probably some other things too 😅

@JelleVermandere  i want the other things too😅

If only I was this smart, amazing!

where is neurotoxin?! 0/10

Glados irl

9:56 lol its the attack of the robots

Cool!

did u use python for the programming

Aperture Science: WRITE THAT DOWN, WRITE THAT DOWN!

I have to get good grade to make this robot hand instead of cheating in exam

İf you had big brain like that guy. Don't waste on youtube because youtube always gives lesser than normal job.

Make it legs or if its too hard make wheel, Palette so it can move when it wants or can bring you water.

Now make it glados

You should team up with Mark Rober

make a new arm that can do science experiments that means it has to be able to measure and has to be more smooth

Glados irl

you should use this arm to make a real time 360 view of your room

Thats so cool!!! why you don`t hit even the 100.000

9:58 bruh the robot attacked him XD

9:51 i love that part. Man vs machine

Oh

You should give it ai

SO UNDERRATED

l ovely

Minecraft create irl

hey! this is the guy who made his room in vr!

Bro is stark but not that very rich

wow that is awesome

I would love to tell my Alexa “hold this”, reach my hand out and a robot arm would grab whatever was in my hand. Or, I could go, “grab the remote” or something and would grab something from across the room and bring it to me

THIS is coool

13:31 All events are real!

Bro nice dit is prachtig

That is so cool!

Robots are awsome and you're also awesome for sharing this with the rest of the world.

For the next thing you do, I think you should make a claw for the arm that can also be controlled with the app.

turn it into Glados

make a drone that has a robotic arm under and can fly with delivering things

You need to make glados from portal

Anyone realised its the same design of the steam logo?

So coooool

You Dutch.?

nice build!

Woah, I'm the same guy! 😎

Hey Jelle wanted to build a robot arm like this for my iMac, how much weight do you think this could hold

You should put a piston on it to make it go all through your room

Fuck man your editing skills are insane

now give it a gun.

Love the editing

7:24 That witch the DS is nice! Can i have a robot like this? Then i have a new purpose for my 3DS...

You have to put glados in that

voice asistance would be cool for it, altho a little bit challanging, you could probably use the angles of a compass to tell it where to be pointing but idk about the 3rd dimention, so you could say hey google or whatever, point to 2 4 9, and it would point in that direction, as a portable thing to bring you your item? no idea, just throwing out ideas

this was amazing. your super talented and smart as hell bruhh

Can I just say… 3D printing is a gift from the gods.

Amazing video but an in-depth tutorial would be nice

If you mount that arm on the floor it will maybe be kind and help you organize your room a bit !

you should do something like when you ask the robot for something it will search your room, (probably making it a mess in the process) and then after finding the object you want it will give it to you, like siri!

i just realized that the video was uploaded in my birthday XD

It Would be REALLY easy to turn this into a glados  character.

My first thought with the robotic arm would be to give it a controllable nerf gun.

Day after day u get closer to become iron man

reminds me of that one scene from big hero 6

GLaDOS

bro french tony stark, this is amazing

You'll definitely need something stronger, this arm was already struggling with the camera, so of you want to hang something very heavy like an Imac, you should look at ising some counter weights to balance the arm out

Congrats!

@JelleVermandere  thank you!  i never thought i would get replied by one of my fav youtubers!

you made an arm now make a hand and after that make a torso and so on until the robot uprising begins

Put some face tracking what a camera on there so it tracks your face

Bro when the robots take over hes just stuck there forever

You are amazing!!

you dutch

use it for ur video filming

Make it have a hand

Mount a gun to it      (A nerf gun though)

Amazing video editing and great use of ar

Dude, your videos are actually great. I would have though you had millions of subscribers! I am sure you will grow very fast.

using those reflective ball thingies, a couple cameras and some clever mapping code you could make it so that it can actually hold things for you! Maybe intergrade it into alexa or google home to be voice activated?

Call him dummy like from iron man

put a light on it

that 360 degree shot of the room at 12:59 was fake as shit, obviously the camera was too heavy for the arm, not only is the thumbnail a clickbait, but the whole video is a scam, the maker didn't even think about the strengh of the arm, ended up with a big fail

Make an attachment to make it really long or other attachments to help do stuff (saw, drill, hand)

If it’s possible it’s be really cool if you could control it with a glove of some sort

you should get a motion sensor that follows you so you can recored and do cool things there cheap

Give It a robot head and you have GLaDOS

make it controlled by tracking your arm/hand

kinda looks like GLaDOS actually

The arm is gonna see 2021 and see the end of the world without even have toke a step in his life

Nah. He needs a tazer

I’m gunna assume this is a joke

Attach GLaDOS head please

You should make "Poi"s for the robot for specific tasks like "rest" or "get my controller" and stuff like that.

make this arm on your back so you can use it as a 3rd arm to carry stuff

From the looks of the quality of the print i’d say your bed may be a little uneven or you have some moisture in your filament

All fun in games until the arm gains sentience and starts replicating itself.

How can I build this in my room

Replace the arm with GLaDOS

What servo did you use for the elbow?

Why did 500 pepl dislike dis video?

this makes me wanna have a wheatly robot attached to my ceiling. (lamp)

Could you release the files?

to be honest I thought this would be really underwhelming and you would fail but I am quite wrong after watching the video.

Tony stark?

AMAZINGGG!!!

Im really interested in robotic but im not sure where to start Any idea whats the essential knowledge that i need? And what kind of math/physic that i need to learn first just like in the video where you calculate how the arm move.. Really Appreciate if any body can give me some insight Thank

Robot: does violent unintended movements Jelle: "Let's add a stronger Motor"

You need to figure out how to make one that goes as far as each wall to the floor. The put a super grip claw on it so you can actually use it the grab any item in the room.

Imagin being a robber and seeing a robot arm with a camera vibing

13:14 bro i have this exact boxing glove home, but only one lol

USE A CAMERA SO HE CAN PICK THINGS UP BY HIMSELF!!! OR USE A.i.!!!!

Bro this man just ripped off the power puff girls and did it better. XD

It's indeed crazy how much work you put in these! You have a new subscriber and deserver ALOT more! Keep it up! Oooh and.. Hallo mede-belg! ;-)

maybe try putting a remote control on your left arm to control it and to be able to bring teh arm to you without having to use an external device, so it would be better for holding nails or other things that require the arm moving to you while you do something important

9:50 an amazing battle with a robot

My horny ass could never get into robotics I would probably get kicked out of every robotics club for making some kinda sex robot

yoo michel reeves, surgery bot

this is how it starts

add an automatic tracker were it tracks your face so you dont have to constantly adjust it while using it for recordings

Dude that’s so cool I thought this was like a joke video but it looks so amazing

i have a brilliant idea it might be hard but i think you should make a glove and voice detected so you could add bar codes to your stuff and name them  you can call it a name and when you say its name like "Bob, can you get me my drill" it will search for the barcode or its name taged to it grabe it and would go to the glove that is in you hand  you could also add this to other place like "Bob can you put the drill in section a/ desk" and would be sent there.

Hallo jelle

I need one for my room lol

program it that it move itself without controlling it  i hope you notice this

Imagine if someone like me hacked into it... (I already did while you slept. idk if it worked but i can controll it) edit: I did it agian... i am just controlling my neibors garage

can you give him AI vision?

i liked the power puff girls reference

make another one and have them fight to the death

this guys voice is cool

Ai + camera tracker+   voice comands

bro has glados in the middle of his room

Merci!

Merci!

Make a hand controller for it

Give it a knife. Robot Home Security System.

Man I was going to do that but I would add a track for covering the entire room

Make the robot arm automatically track your face

How were you able to connect blender and VS Code?

Are you a college student?

Which rasberry pi did you use?

I love this

Make it controller operated and give it a motor operated grabber claw thing

Its a GLaDOS

I love the telltale games reference

The robot invasion

Can the robot arm do a sandwich?

Dope, what about controlling it with devices attached to your arms or maybe a kinect connected to the robot that scans your moves.

This was fun to watch! and thank you for the explanations, I enjoyed learning how it was made :D

👍 👍 👍 👍 👍 👍 👍 👍

make more vids of the robot

This guy deserves more views/subscribers...

I think the UX will get in the way of this being really useful If you add a little camera and do some hand tracking you could use gestures to control it instead of an app, that way you can frame up a camera easily on the fly for example

Awsome vids! Leuk om iemand tezien uit de BeNeLux met dit soort content!  Mijn sub heb je meer dan verdiend!

You can make a robotic arm at any age!  I’m literally 10 and I’m coding mine rn

you don't even have 6 DOF smh you needed an extra joint for the last rotation axis ("yaw" of the end effector)

BEEEEEEEEELLGIEEE

Good idea, i want to make a version of it but no money moment

Súper interestring vídeo, the paint job si also really cool. Sad the vídeo si not reaching more people

you should give it a gun and make in it an autoturent

What for?

WOW! The skill! The content is wonderful, the jokes are well ... pun-chy and the editing is *chef's kiss*!

u can make AI for him to do some basic commands =D

T

drill a litle hoo

I think the servos were too weak.

Can you make some sort of added part that stabilizes the movement attached to another anker point. Like a secondary arm that holds the first arm so that it's more smooth

This guy has a sense of humor

I would recommend putting Lofi music instead of the 5-minute crafts music (that I find kind of annoying).

Well earned sub <3

Amazing video and project! Huge respect to build something like this! I am actually also building a robot arm and I really like your's. Can I find the code somewhere (would be really cool)?

thats so cool

This is Crazy!!! your are a genius!!!

This video might be the reason why you'll hit 69420 subscribers very soon.

When you get creative with it, don't forget to use lube :D

Hey Jelle, what did you study and did you go to hbo or university. You know a lot about mechanics and a lot about electronics and also programming. It's really impressive so I wondered how you got all these skills

imagine vr tracking with that arm it would be you but A  R  M

wow, i'm just amazed

an imu in the hand, so the movements will go smoother

I think you should use that as your new camera mount

Wow that's awesome

If I was you, I probably put two things in a next part. Some stabilizer, to make a smooth camera with the arm. Second and super fancy is a prefab voice commands with a Google lib or something similar :)

you are so funny and creative!

What a great job you did !

You really waited to finish printing the whole adapter test fitting them all? Maybe just print the hole part and do test fitting its faster and wont waste fillament

youre soo good

How much time do you spend editing omg

jarvis from wish

Amazing! are you using SG90 servos?

I just found this and you are awesome my friend.

How much time do you take for this proyect?

Did you actually make it?

give it a voice, a glados wannabe

Bro can you give us the model

I loved seeing from the beginning to end thank you for sharing

Most of the stuff you see here I learned on my own from the internet. I try to learn something new with every video I make, each time building on the previous one

@JelleVermandere  that's amazing man! Very inspiring

Weeks 😅

@JelleVermandere  yeah and it shows! Keep it up!

For the small version yess, the big one has bigger motors

@JelleVermandere  ahhhh ok, what model are the bigger ones?

Yess, it’s real 😅

Some serius glados vibes in here

Great project, this is absolutely amazing. Is it possible to cooperate with you?

So cool, make it have a humanoid hand

This is so cool

Hook up a camera (placed on the hand area) and a simple AI on the pi to have the arm able to track/ follow you

El primer video que veo tuyo y me he quedado flipando. En serio, impresionante. No se como no tienes 200 veces más suscriptores... Me ha encantado. Saludos desde España!

More

Niceee, You've gained a subscriber!!!

underrated video

GLaDOS is that you?!

okay lets see, wtf bro. you are a beast

The robotic arm Can Load/Unload anything

voice  movment

Without AI this is a nonsense.

Powerpuff intro got me blew out some air. Have an upvote dude!

I love your animations! what program are you using?

Ahah, love your style!

smart - create - excellent 😊

now this is entertainment at its best loved your video glad i stumbled on it

Robot arm ceiling bar

Perhaps he have 66,6 k subscribed peoples

For the camera mount, would it be possible to keep the end part level no matter what angle the main arm is? i think itll look better if it would be used for filming.   Great vid BTW!

Mate, this is what I call talent! The editing is amazing 😄

Total destruction! That was beautiful

Add a function to use it as a ceiling fan!

Tis' underrated

An iron man suit its next! Your arm its like the Tony Stark robot arm assistants hahah preaty cool!

Love it! First time seeing your videos, like your style

can you make him smart (like Cozmo ) maybe?

The guys is amazing.

Loooove this acc

Hey amazing project, coud you please tell me your 3d printer model name

Amazing work. Would love to see this with more powerful motors to smooth out some of the wobbles the arm has when extending

Mein größten Respekt für deinen Roboter! Mega cool!!!

Hi, do you check if the base doesnt rotate too much around so it doesnt snap the wires?

make it with VOICE recognition

Excellent video my frind💖💖💖.

heerlijk idee makker!

You should make it so when you phone is mounted it uses face recension to follow you around the room

wonder if you can use an accelerometer to test for resonances (Like on a 3d printer) to work out some of the wobbles? I dont know a single thing about what you are doing so that might be a dumb suggestion. I am super impressed! good work man!

Amazing how nowadays if you want an arm coming out of your ceiling to make you beverages, you can just go ahead and make it. That was science fiction not that long ago.

4d explorer does not work right, I can’t go up the slope.

thats it. im making a robot arm

Someone needs to hire this man

Wow this robot arm is awesome!

i think robots are cool

Scroll!!                                                                        Scroll!!!                                                          C'mon                                                     Scroll!!                                   Never                         Gonna                                           Give                                            You                              Up                      Ok bye 👋  heve a great time!!!!

When obsessed with mickey mouse:                Got it!!!

Just found your video/channel   Wow you are VERY talented. And your editing is some of the best I’ve seen.   How are you this good when you look so young 👀   Great video 🇬🇧

You should make a tracking system that follows you or an object

Seems to need bigger servos or steppers with encoders. And maybe counter weights to balance the torque.

so you made a Howard Wolowitz - Robotic Hand does it come with the same happy ending.

Project Hail Mary - Andy Weir ;-)

love the idea I would love to see a v2 using stepper motors and/or a planetary gear for extra power and smoothness and maybe attempt to go for open-source software to make it run more smoothly and possibly give it more functionality.

Subscribed !!!

Pretty cool!!! One thing you can do is that...make the arm with the camera attached follow your face like a cameraman(like they do in tech events), it would be really cool.

Should invest in more quality motors. Arms movement looks like it was assembled with cheapest materials

Awesome project! Would be very interesting to see next steps 😉 Did you see new NVIDIA's robot AI? https://youtu.be/-t-Pze6DNig

Real life Wheatley?

BRO lol such nostalgia in that ppg  I miss Dexter's lab

Yes me too, when i saw those RC servo i kind a know that the arm movement will be jerky  Cant wait to see this with Stepper

Should have put it on a gantry

What mouse are you using?!?!?!

I feel like the lighted ring may make for the perfect shelf to stick some commonly used tools or parts. maybe print some bins that fit perfectly in it's grasp along the ring and set it up with voice commands to grab the components for you?

bro the michel reeves :)

The servo is struggling!!

What if you add a camera to the arm, and run some form of tracking software? Then you will always have a extra hand without having to command it with the controller.

Voice control it!!!!

​ @Jelle Vermandere  could you link the stepper motor you used? I am trying to make a similar robot with a automatic tool changer.

This is great, hope I can learn from your lessons!

Where did you buy the components and what was the total project cost? Can you provide just a basic Bill of Materials?

This is absolutely amazing, the amount of skills and talents needed to do this is very inspiring and impressive!

Should scale it up 1.5x for the ceiling. Make it capable of picking stuff up off the ground

Can you make a titorial on how to make

I bet that camera is gon be good for filming

I’m impressed such tiny servos can have enough torque to move an arm like that

Weich Programming Language did you used

This robot art can be used for streaming

man invented ai again

that's awesome man

Reminds me of glados

It's a nema 17, i think 42mm long

Program an AI to control the arm and add voice command

Good.Now Make glados

connect the robot arm to your arm and now you have 3 arms

put glados head on it

video editing is awesome, jokes on the other hand are not my taste, keep up the good work man!, you rock

I can't believe he hasn't made another video yet 😭

Pretty awesome. Definitely would've worked better with slower, higher torque motors, but all things considered, I'd say it turned out well.

Damn this is some quality content I just stumbled across.

A table mounted ai powered one will be helpfull.

This is awesome!

sentry coming up

Make a game using python

Now turn it I to glados

Try turning it into GladOS

Holy shit your editing style is amazing

i dropped my computer screen watching this 10/10

Maybe add a camera to move the arm to aim towards you and use a distance sensor to detect when something is in its hand to close

Make a shell for it that looks like glados

Great job, you made DUM-E

make a robot that plays vr and captures the video from the headset, all on a pc

u sound rlly nederlands

When is he going to upload again

Give it voice commands so you can tell it what to do like Jarvis

wow amazing content  i just loved it

Just the way he kept saying "joint" is making me laugh.

Ooooh, when the arm is not in use, you should have it extend out to point at the current hour like a clock, using your led lamp. If you can Assign individual LED's Color, you can assign the minutes to the LED lights.

make it solve a jigsaw puzzel or a rubik's cube

You should control it with a VR controller or a custom controller (make a custom controller and use it for the robot)

U should control it with a very controller

A spotlight would be interesting.

Why haven’t you turned that into GLaDOS yet

14:06 dopper bottle gang

Ik ruik nederlands

you should make it controllable using a game controller

when his 15 second physics lessons makes more sense than all of your college degrees🤔

ik ruik belg

Great but now what im gonna need you to do is program Glados from portal and put it on the hand of the arm and make an outer shell for it

Kan die robot arm bier in mijn mond gieten?

I'm disappointed there was no joke about the fact that the arm is effectively controlled by an arm (processor). Hue hue hue.

Dit is echt ziek

How hard can it hit? pretty fucking hard apparently.

A non-aggressive Micheal Reeves

Ee

eventually youre gonna have a fully customisable bigger-on-the-inside bedroom that also can turn into a mech

Haha now I don’t need to go to high school physics class

“Wait no thats the kitchen book!” That part really got me lol. keep uploading!

you should use worm gears to fix the moters being under powered

Got some serious under extrusion issues on the printer. Check for a clogged nozzle.

id love to see something like this used for a vr lightsaber/duling game so you have something that can hold a sword you can hit

Freaking awesome!!!

where did you learn the skills used in this project/ who do you recommend others learn similar skills?

this is like GLaDOS From Portal But Its An Arm

GLADos

Look in to a camera tracking software so when you have a cam on it it just tracks you and keeps you in frame could make solo vid making easy

You should try smth about infrared to make the actual arm follow any movements and trying to grab it like smth optional

Make it automatically do stuff is the next thing

Tremendo! Saludos desde Colombia

That. Was. AWESOME!

Name the tester arm B.R.A (beta robot arm) and C.R.A (complite robot arm)

Are you Swedish?

Same when I grow up I wanna make my room all mechanical

put a gun on it for home security

Aight... Ima sub and watch you reach 100k or 1M

GLaDOS moment

ok so would having a body tracking/face recog for the arm allow for a real life GLaDOS?

This is so cool and i have suggestion that may be hard to execute. Setting up some cameras around the room that start to track your arm when you say, snap. The robot arm could then take the input from your arm making it more easily operable and probably a lot funner too. I imagine it would take a while to properly do though

underated

why dont you get it to work with voice activation if possible

This guy is insanely smart!

dutch!!!!!!!!!

Try adding servo gear boxes for more strength and to smooth out its motions.

it would be great if you can add a camera and use it to face recognise you and follow your face....

nice mate

Heel erg vet man, leuk gemaakt

well one option for a follow up would be to give it a gun or other weapon and seeing how close we are to terminator.

you undurestamated robot arm’s POWER

i cant watch youtube without seeing ikea stuff everywhere god i hate my job

Wow thats epic!

Inted of a robot arm, you should make GLADOS <3 that would be epic, maybe install Alexas AI and change its voice to GLADOS

great content! highly underrated .

pls make like a little controller on the side of ur desk or make it portable u will look like tony stark fr

Vessat puhtaaksi.

I feel like you probably need to print some planetary gear boxes for this thing  https://youtu.be/McfVmBNaNuA

my man is the real tony stark

Bro this deserves 1m + views!! ❤️

11:03 Is that the same Rubik's cube from before!🧐🤣

YES YES!! Your channel is getting more views and subs!!!

Ayo action? Belguim lets go

this Robot Arm needs a A.I !

First time here. Amazing video, but the only thing bugging me is the use of servos for that big arm. You should have used stepper motor for all joints, and a servo for the hand. Due to servos being cheaper than stepper motor, you could have made a skeletal design of the arm. If you had went with the skeletal design, you could've removed a lot of dead weight, and your servos wouldn't be under so much stress (that's why it jitters). All in all an entertaining video. Keep up with the good work :D

just a thought. Is it possible to make a bracelet/ring that sends coordinates of your hands and adds like a meter to it? and like it would activate at a press of a button on the ring or something. That way you could control it without a traditonal controller or a tablet

Me after watching ironman

This is like the book project Hail Mary

sell it

The color and style reminds a lot about Scrap Mechanic

This inspires me to be a robot engineer

This man just taught me a years' worth of physics in 15 seconds

Subscribed and liked! I really appreciate the work you’re putting into these videos!

Hangt daar Belgisch nummerplaat achter die bike?

Make it so when it holds a camera it follows you around

Leuk dat je nederlands bent

5.2in

When i first saw this video i thought of the arms that control the house from the mickey mouse clubhouse cartoon

Next video: My robot arm selled my kidney while i was sleeping

Now turn it into glados ... you cant not

I watched in 1 week all your videos :)  I can't wait for the next video

You should make it track your face

Very cool!

Bruh, How do you only have 60K!? I loved this Video!

I was SUper suprised to see a clip of michael In this Vid!

GLaDOS

Very cool project, I should build one of my own.... After all the other things that I have in my backlog 😅

make it follow your face with a camera? for an option idk

Use your arm to control the robot arm. Different controls through finger touch.  rotate if thumb and pinky touched, index and thumb if grabbing something etc.   It would be really cool if you can't use your interface.

I’ve been inspired to someday build a long robot arm for my room, I mean I got to do something with my engineering degree once I graduate

It just wants to end its life

What software did you use to make your 3d model?

You should try and make it track you with a camera

put a GLaDOS head on that

and so GLaDos V1.0 is born. we're doomed from this point on

Very nice project! However, it seems like you'd need way beefier servos to gain more positional accuracy, and reduce jitter! With such a design you can't have counterweights, thus the motors have to do all the holding...

Nice, now give it machine vision.

get some friends

This is super cool! I wanted to make something like the gantry design to be able to go around the edges of my room so I have an effective reach of my whole room, but after seeing this I'm reconsidering

you now have me interested in robotics lol

Awesome

The camera robot scene looks the the birth of an ai

Hey Mr. Vermandere. I am very interested in a project like this and I would like to know if I could make a robot with a similar design to yours. I probably wont make a video on it but I feel like it is better to ask.

Now attach GladOS head hahaha

do a cool nile red style experiment that is dangerous but use the arm bc its dangerous that would be cool

I thought of putting magnets on the two ends of the arm (if they dont harm any electronics) and then mount like a space at the top, around the rgb ring so the robot could like always move to a certain position, dock onto something thats there with his magnets and get it out for you. Could for example be like a box of snacks or something

#robots!

Now build a dispenser

cringe + privileged + spoiled + ratioed

The algorithm blessed this video

Just give it a few sensors and some programming and it can start tracking and following you

Hmmmmmm glados????

i can’t say what is more impressive: the project or the video editing

Broooooo This was awesome, Instant sub

Hey omg this was an amazingggg video good job ur so cool I was thinking what if u made it like voice activated like in iron man lol have a good day

McMakistien but irl

Of course! Good luck

make it so that it can give you tools from the ceiling

what if you made it so people could control it through like a twitch chat thing, where you could have a just talk or sleep stream anything irl and just have it so twitch chat can move the arm around. other idea, what if you made it so you could use a vr headset and the arm would move so its mimics the movement of your headset in real time

Your robot arm is great but I feel like you could improve its accuracy and strength by adding gear ratios to all of the joints.

That was the best thing I watched in a long time

Hope the Ai don't fight back

Add graspers and make it stronger.

I instantly thought of googley eyes

Wait...you downloaded python onto raspberry pi? I gotta try this

surprised you didn't do the initial test upside down as it was going to be on your ceiling.

Now add on a robotic head, add in an evil ai and neurotoxins, and boom! You have GLADOS!

Wow that's a crazy amount of editing, animation, and all that on top of the control engineering, mechanical engineering, and electrical engineering! Well done! Ive been thinking of making one of these myself and you gave a lot of great ideas (slip rings!)

Now turn it into GLADos. Just don't give it any deadly neurotoxin.

make an extendable forearm for increased functionality

Put a nerf gun on your robot arm

now make glados

i dont know why when he did the camera thing i thought of when the world ended by a robot and there was a flashback of the creator when he made the robot xD

cool project en goed uitgewerkt. Maar ik raad u aan uw print kwaliteit te verhogen...

omfg the power puff girls intro was so good :Q___   well earned sub from me my new friend :>

You know you're smart when you just hide cable management with fancy design rather then fixing it

How are I still on 60k with that video

So Jelle is the Engineering model of the Lex Fridman line?

Very good

you are awesome

Imagen someone hacks the web server and starts controlling the arm randomly

I feel very lonely because of corona, so I bought myself stuff to build a tiny otto diy robot (he looked cute and I already had most of the parts at home).  robots are cool.

You should have gotten less bouncy motors

Fair play for being funny in a second language 👍🏽

How long is part and how power the servomotor???

do you think it would be possible to make it so when the arm has the camera attachment it will follow the nearest person in the room so you don't have to turn it by hand

Please do an arm attachment at the robot base so you can change it without actually touching it

Robots are cool

Amazing!

Combien d'année d'études pour en arriver là? Sinon ta vidéo et super

Za kolik si to můžu koupit

Make a hand:)

Amazing video-making skills there. I really liked the idea of having a personal robot arm in my room.

what are you going to make? glados har har

Glados But Her Head Is A Hand.

I'm curious if you could add resonance compensation like Disney uses on their animatronics to reduce the wobble.

what if you made physical objects that could act as places for the arm to move to sorry im not good at esplaining things

Livestream idea 😅

Put AI on it

You’re going to be a famous YouTuber.

yo chanel like this i was looking for a loooong time.... letuce sea

amazing job, how many months does it take you to do it?

Try use motion detection

GLaDOS

"thats why im going to use servos" instantly clicks off video

this channel is very underrated ngl 🗿

Ultraslap when you still having drunk after a night of hangover, any github for this so I can hang my clothes on shielf by making one mount on the wall XD

Please give us a AI and The arm can extend out pls try it

Pls try to give it a AI I just think it’s cool

hi you will share the files or make some tutorial about it?

This is so cool!

You should make GLaDOS

Fantastic project and great sense of humor! Thanks for making an inspiring video!

Glados.

Just found a new favorite YouTuber

The scooper irl

parle en Français ses horrible a entendre

Make sure your inhibitorchip is working for your next arms.

imagine this, a tool wrack, and voice control, so if you said “hammer” it would go to the hammer in the tool wrack and hand it to you

imagine waking up and being like: "hmmmm... I should make a robot are in the middle of my room controlable from my ds"

Amazing video man. I built a planar arm similar to yours and I was working on the ik for a hemispheric version too, I us e MATLAB to simulate the motion but I wanted to improve my simulation game. Would you mind sharing your unity codebase so I can take a look as build myself something similar? Or better, make a video that I would certainly follow.

Give it voice comands and maybe a small camera not accidentaly bump into stuff

nice project not bad for your fist time having contact with robot grappler

glados

This was a fun video to watch, I really enjoyed to design process!

I love making cool things like this, can any body suggest me a course in university or career that has similar work to this legend here has been doing?

Niceee! Use a service like P-R-O-M-O-S-M!!!

Make your robot create another robot. The robot army shall take over the world!!

We are one step closer to aperature science being real

Essentially the concept of glados

Linux good tho :(

You made me go from curious to holy shit im impressed, that is absolutely amazing

Is small

GLaDOS maybe?

but this arm is useless, and cant help him fix his problem with tools

This video just became one of my favorites videos on yt, everything is just sooo goood

And so I thought my videos are cringe 😄.  Still well done dude! 👍

How long is your arm? 💪

4

ok

1

which one tho

21 inches

42 meters.

about 17

about 40000000000 μm

400000000000000 meters world recored

721.

Somewhat long

2 kg

1786 kb

Long enough

5 meter

Not too long but pretty strong

To long

just like my pen... i mean leg i mean leg

Cheese burger

-2 :c

34"

yeah that's cool, but give it  A.I so it can mess with you

12 km

give it some eyes

2cm

15kg

7

depends on temperature ;-)

Your useless robot arm is waste of materials and waste a lot of energy which spended in google datacenter for sharing that garbage for killing time of the users around the world. That project is not ECO frendly at all. Why you doing that?

@vadim: looser

More

@tronnzy3692   721 millimeters?

16".

20

Pi inches

Are you using PID controllers? Do you want a more fluent movement?

2

you should add some AI, or some code that responds to voice commands, so that it can actually pass you any object you ask it, and also make a claw, LOL

my 3rd one? uhh about 4 inches

About the same length as my other arm

@vmened   you tipping this comment is not ECO frendly at all

89cm

2

long

Idk

longer than yours

are you from the netherlands or belgium

Average

long

At least 1 arm long

as lost as a fricking planet

40 meters

2cm oh wait arm 3 inches

1'11

@leapacho  bro what 💀

Longer than your pe-

Hmm depends. When its bent it stands around 27.8 meters and weighs 35lbs When its stretched however it can be as long as 57.4 meters and can weigh 56lbs

@Kanigo29 sus

Ones world beam

6 feet

@user-PG13  oh u sussy baka

0.4 light days

30 inches

24,736

1000  Also wouldn't you say you built glados? Lol

52 minutes

26in/66cm

Whatever half of 5’3 is

@alecboi777  actually measure it

i know that bag it from a dutch market called action cuz i live in the nederlands

3.5 inches if you include the hand

1000000000000000000 kilometers long

id say a couple hundred thousand meters

Witch one I have 3 😏

Bread

Idk

About 6 and a half inches

Don’t let them know your next move: more then 1.

hopefully longer so i can hit before it hits me xD

69420 nanometer

I can probably broke my PC when i move it around a little...

More than 15cm

Ayo

Fleshlight mod

miles

N/A

its not

orange spaghetti

100m

9:44 WTF sound dude

Add a raspberry pi camera for tracking you like motion eye with recognization so when your stand by your desk you can have it follow your hand in mid air if it is in the plane of movement and hold something or just have a table for you to set something for a moment

maybe write some code for stabilisation so it doesn't wobble that much

Would be really cool if it have some Computer Image applications. Imagine you can have it tracking you across the room with the camera.

try adding voice control like jarvis

Haha Action tas

i love how playful this guy is

what if you used the robot arm to control the robot arm

When I saw him cutting tomatoes and preheating the oven, I subscribed.

what servos did you use

Oh these videos are hilarious and amazing.

As someone who is still relatively new to the field mechatronics, here's some tips that may help from my testing with very cheap materials and supplies (we're talking cardboard and SG90 servos since i'm a high school student)  * You could use an extended kalman filter for state estimation for the motors. Sometimes, for cheaper motors or if you use gears (not sprockets/chains), occasionally it can "skip" and give you a slightly incorrect value, a kalman gain function could fix this. Bang-bang filters are also an option if an eKF is too hard * You could use a cheap webcam (or your current one) and use OpenCV with a morphological image processing algorithm or blob detection for objects. Blob detection is terrible in different lightning conditions, and if you wanted to do fast processing, a truncated SVD would be good to use for pre-processing in conjunction with a MIP * A PD/PID controller would be good to move to a position. It's a little more complex than what you have, but it's incredibly useful and has that "easing" motion you're aiming for, specifically with a PID controller. However, a PD controller is better for quick and less precise movements (in my opinion) * A Stewart platform would be interesting to use for the base, if you wanted angular motion, as well (although definitely not needed, would almost be redundant) edit: The field of inverse kinematics is also worth looking into, but from what I saw with the computer renders, it looks like you have something similar going on

give it a knife

This guy should make an irl glad0s

seriously this needs its own github page and tutorial PLEEAASE

That's some serious Aperture Science stuff going on, man. Nice job.

LOVED the video! You got a new sub

that's so cool!, keep up the good and hard work jelle!

Itd be cool if you implented OpenCV, so that it could track your hand and you can hand it things to hold

Amazing video Jelle, I have been planning to do something similar but with something with more holding torque for more stability + load capacity, and adding the ability for the arm to know what is attached with the ability to apply a default behaviour. For example a camera linked to a graphic AI chip which would allow your face to be kept in a certain area of the video with the ability to react to gesture control.

Essentially glados

Appreciate it. I found a lot of useful information in your reply.

now i want to make animatronics.

This is amazing and also a PSA on the importance of emergency stop buttons. Very cool.

give it voice commands like “arm move *here*” and “arm go home”

Oh my GOD What a Quality Level!! Bravo!

Make Glados from Portal 2!

next you could make it so that it has a bunch of different attachments that it could automatically grab from the ceiling

Does it have a PID controller?

Maybe you could make it kinda like a gimbal to film videos

great idea! this is like the coolest shit ive seen this week

You could add some vision based algorithm for tracking using the monitor output of the camera. Very cool project! I'll subcribe

make it look like glados

Awesome video! What programs did you use to design the robot and test it in simulation?

You should use the program that gimbles use to make it a smooth when the arm is using the camera

Give it a speaker with some monitor, so that it can be a helpful friend.

Awsome Video! I think you should make 2nd part where you modify and make the arm better, For example I don't see the usefulness as much outside of it not moving since its not very accurate and kind of jerky so a fix to that like would be nice to see along with a hand/claw attachment.

How can i make my sergo arm go to a position like you did in this video i am working on a project for 4 months and i da ateş  3 months for that?

Man this is pretty awesome and you are very smart. One thing though I would recommend you put an e stop for machines like this.

reLLY NICE

Where did you get that knife?

Hey! that robot is breaking the first law of robotics!

I think you should make a hand for the robot and it can help you hold camera or other stuff 😁.

This is insane! Extremely well done Jelle!

make it longer and smoother and make it so it can bring you stuff like pick up the controller from the desk and give it you

Valve is typing...

:D Big Bang Theory :D :D :) do Wolowitz robot arm lol hahahahahaha

I am currently working on a project that requires a robot arm and my school doesn't have one so I need to make one myself. And incidentally, your robot arm appears to be the perfect size for it. Can I have your parts list or maybe the schematics of the robot arm so I can make one for the project.

You should use a hydraulic stick on the forearm of the robot to make I extend across the room this I don't know how the wires oare supposed to reach the hand

This is AMAZING!

Give it an AI and make it automated

What cad software are you using

Add a nerf gun. Bam, turret. No more demons in ur room

i love this video

another great video

cool project , you need to add more  stably tho .

This man is riding the line between chaotic good and neutral good

10

this is absolutely brilliant!

sick!

cool. you ask what more your robotic arm can do. how about picking up a hammer off the ground

I believe u can make it stronger by gearing the servo up try by 1.5 or even more cuz u dont need that much speed u need more torque will make it more accurate also :)))

I know, I can't help myself 😎

I cant even Start to imagine how much work this Video was. 100-200+ hours easily. Congrats, you convinced me to subscribe with just one Video. This is awesome!

As a developer who has tried to wrangle servos to do what I want, I appreciate all the work you put into this. Earned my subscription 😊

Engineering 7/10 Editing 11/10

What if you added a Pi cam and then had a setup where it could track you. The new Alexa’s can do this

my childhood dream (and still is) was to have a House made of the Telescopic Robotic Panels from Portal 2. imagine the whole house just does anything you want

Tony be like

The robot arm could kick you out of your bed when you don't want to.

ADD AN HAND!!!!

besides you being great at what you built, the editting on this video is awesome!

Which software you have used for the animation and 3d modeling

I would try using ROS (robot operating system) on RPI. It could make controlling the robot much easier and add more functionality.

best produced engineering feverdream EVER

How do you do all these animations? they are amazing!

Love these videos !  Very creative and underated!

I have always dreamed of building my own little robot arm but I know whatever I could come up with wouldn't even be half as good as this and any commercial solution would probably break the bank for how much I would use it. You did a fantastic job, great video.

Smells dutch

This guy has mastered every skill there is, physics, maths, computing, mechatronics, engineering

Eyy my names jelle!

:goodvibes::goodvibes::goodvibes:

really cool nice video!

Everything is made in blender

@JelleVermandere  Ohh nice.Thanks for the reply!I will contact you in case of any help!

add gimball

Pumping device

AI following mode, for cameras and like holding stuff for you, just an AI with voice so you can say "Ceiling Robot, smash the hardest you can right downwards" and cool stuff. Keep up with the good work, Jelle!

power puff girls...lol

Nice job! Now put a G.L.a.D.O.S head on it =D

great video and robot! if you don't mind a bit of a suggestion, make a gear train, you'll be able to get much smoother movements

Loved your video!

Make it longer so it can actually reach stuff in your room. If you make it really really long it might be able to pick up Russian tanks

Get a hand working so it can just automatically hold stuff when requested

you have some under extrusion in your prints. Other then that nice video!

Bro what is this book 0:51 ... I can’t find it anywhere Could you mention it (if it’s real 😅)

Got this Video recommended on my main page and I must say I am very impressed! Loved all the jokes and the overall editing. I have no idea of engineering but the video is great!

you can probably sell this to vloggers and other content creators :D

I really like technique and construction so it was really interesting to see in what kind of problems you run.  Also your way of explaining stuff was really humerous too, in combination with your accent really funny, like the mix.👍

You could prolly make a good 3d scan of your room using that robot.

Where did you learn all the things? How to, where should go to learn robotics

Ohhh I made a robot arm before like 4 months ago

PLEASE... Put a gladoss head on it as an option! :D

A robot builder and a story teller ... a rare combination

your videos are so cool!!!! so cool  ⭐<< star badge for cool idea

Make it change the light colors based off of its mood or mode

Funny project, I enjoyed it. But pls let me advise you that servo motors aren't a good choice for this type of robot. I would recommend you to use the nema stepper motor, that you use for the ground plate, for the other joints too. It will in the end move very smooth and will have much more torque

I don't know how i came here, but i'll stay. Nice video!

You are great. I am writting these suggestions for improving your content and you can throw them away if you want: Don't over-fake the "failures". With this style you are standing inbetween stuffmadehere and electroboom. Keep your own style. You seem like an amazing dude at his craft. Push your talents.

Camera tracking?

I hoping if you could share your robot code/program so I could build one for my self. I would be really thankful if you do,🙂👍

give it a knife

Can you post the stl files for this please?

Captions got scuffed

subscreebed

Nice work! But what is an arm without a hand? ;-)

The Michael Reeves cameo

Control the Arm with MoveIt, ROS and a 3d Sensor. This would make things much more convenient.

It could hold my quest 2 while I’m not playing it 😂

Control it with Alexa xD

Imagine making a stepper system for these in a VR system for movement?

need gearing to  help with torque and round out the movement.

Its the robot from Wall-e!

where did you buy your servo motors please

GLADOS Portal.

Next do a magnetic dealing so hammers will be falling yo.

can it play games? if it can't, then can you make it play games? ( it's a challenge )

Props on stickin to a good ole monoprice v2

you should of made glados head from the game portal

Now you just need a programmer and a camera

make it follow you so it will be able to film you better

literally one of the small amount of creators who actually do cool stuff, keep going dude!

This guy is living all of our dreams

You’re creativity never fails! Keep up the great work!

you could make more robot arms and remake the wall pannels from portal

Googly Eyes! It needs Googly Eyes!

405

A other Youtuber fixed the problems with the not stabel and shaky movment by adding a planatary gear to the servo. So it has more torge and still fast inove. maybee for a upgrade :P

Let us control the arm in your room!

woah, cool!

It won't reach anything at all.

Voice controls would be super cool, and maybe like a sleeve that you can tell the robot to go into to rest and not hit you in the head.   Fist time seeing your channel, already subscribed. :)

hold on to ur butt jelle this is going to go wild!

I think you need to put some feed back on those arms.  The reason its jumping around so much is the pi is just guessing at the arm's angles and acceration.  Though that would mean you would need to use some closed loop drivers like the 5160.  Meh.  I just want an arm to hold my bear.

Super cool video! I really like the ceiling mount design. It seems more versatile than those desk mounted ones.  Do you think it'd be possible to add in payload compensation? That way when you have something close to the limit of your robot, it doesn't move faster downwards than upwards because of gravity. I work in industrial automation and that's one of the parameters we put into our robots, even just for a couple kg (as well as payload center of mass and moment of inertia for torque compensation but that's harder to do if you're swapping what's loaded)

That powerpuff girls bit was so nostalgic and made me smile

It is me. I am definitely not a robot. I am a human and I think that robots are cool. I am not a robot.

That's how glados is made

Robot on the loose! Great video!

program the game to program a game... this would be hard but plz do it.

High quality video and product, looks like you bought it from a company!

can't believe YT took this long to recommend you channel! Sick robot arm!

wouw nice video

mf made the scooper a real thing

When I saw the thumbnail, I thought it was Glados but nerf verson.

Voice commands and automated tasks

That power puff girls bit was perfect ahahaha

I love your iterative design technique 😍 👌 ❤️

14:06 I like the duct tape adapter

you should transform it into GLaDOS

Name it Jarvis

u can kick urself with arm

well edited my man

I was very skeptical but this is great!

i died when i saw michael reeves at 1:20 lmaooo

Now I want a robot arm in my room...  Thanks for the amazing video as usual, always an inspiration to watch your content :)

no way that was crazy haha u a wizard!

I smell Dutch.

The production level in this is off the chart. Even forgetting about the content, which is great in itself.  You just gained a subscriber.

Sorry, but that is one unsmooth robot arm. If you tell it to go to a certain XYZ co-ordinate, spin around a couple of times and go back to the same XYZ, you will probably see huge miss-match.

Amazing project Jelle - so cool!

Can Sir-Vo Yo-Yo?

underrated bro

You may have not needed a bigger stepper because if its hanging then the friction won't be as high i would think

Amazing!!!

I am only now realizing you have the light fixture I wanted for 10 years. Wonder if I could have bought one from you.

This reminds me of those ceiling mounted rotating gun things from Cyberpunk 2077

I think that you need to make it work with voice commands

High school science part I  learned in middle school

GLaDOS incoming? (Please)

Please add watermarks you work will get stolen...

do you know claw game things where you try to pick up a toy with a claw make that for the arm     if you see this like or if you are jelle vermandere and like peanut and jelly sandwiches name the robot peanut

Using a robot arm for 3d scanning would be really neat

Why are the captions not accurate at all? it's so weird and distracting.

This was so cool. I always wanted to try something like this, and know I partly know how.

awesome video! was that phone the pixel 4a?

This is so cool!!! And very similar to a project I've had on the back burner for some time now (shhh don't tell)

Cool project!

Use it as your standard campov with random positions👌🏻

Give it some eyes and an ai smooth movement

I like your ramène ta fraise balances

Wow! I am so jealous! I want to design robot arms but i dont speak Arduino nor Raspberry pie :-( So! with that being said, WHat would you think about a gear/belt system for each joint? Finer control, more lifting capacity and an advacned circuit where you disasymble the servo to only use the potentiometer for position information. I love your arm, i just think that small srvos are not the appropriate solution to drive the levers you call arms. :-) If i was a littel more educated, i could helpo. as it is now, i am just an  "ARMchair engineer" lol Excellent work! (GLADOS?)

Next time teach it with ML to make cocktail or simply just pour drinks

Bro your editing skills are phenomenal. So very entertaining

You should add movement tracking so it follows you around while holding a camera or something that you want near you while moving around

Man you are so talented and funny. Keep going, you will get what you deserve !!

you deserve a minion subscribers, keep making amazing inventions!

What could a young man do the a robot arm on his BEDROOM ceiling 🤔🤔🤔😉

This looks much like the UR5e! Good Job!

IT'S SO GOOD I'M SO HYPED OMG!!!  It would be reaaaallyy cool to use the phone/camera attachment with face tracking. Detect faces and move the arm accordingly!  OpenCV would do the trick for your current tech stack for this project I guess.

This is how glados was created

Dude this video alone will make your channel go viral. Great stuff

Was it the theme song from "Świat według kiepskich" at 5:05????

Is there a GitHub for your project? Would love to see the code

Hou hiervan! Eerste keer dat ik dit zie! Van België?

Not yet, I'm still fixing some buggs

this robo arm can make glаdos cosplay

Vette shit, ouwe!

POWERPUFFS  !!!!!!!

Who's thinking he should attach GLaDOS to it

Could you make a robot that is controlled with a VR headset?

Is it pronounced “Jell-y”, “Hell-y”, “Hell-ay”, “Gell-y”, “Gell-ay, “Jel-yay”, “Hel-yay”, or “Jell-ay”?

You could have also used an Arduino Mega for this project. There is someone else, who actually built a robot arm. But it looks so advanced, I'm thinking he is an engineer from NASA or similar..

Pretty funny and entertaining. It would be great to see some of the design details.  I've been thinking of learning robotics.

Amazing project! I think you can fix the load issue if you used stepper motors for every joints and integrate a planetary gear inside the joints like the real assembly machines do :D

You coud just use 3 brain sells a shit ton of monster and the acident is micael

you can make a face tracker for your arm to follow you

I was really impressed with the ability to pour a drink, and then it punched the cup off the box and my reaction was “Ah yep, that sounds about right.”

would it not be better to add acceleration and deceleration to the movements of the step motors in order to create smoother movements and less jerking under the weight of the arm itself?

I've heard "Look Busy" by Kevin Macleod in a few other projects and keep wondering what the actual title is, so I finally went and looked up one of the original places I heard it- in a little game called "I Was Hungry But There Were Cannons", a collectathon that predictably is about collecting all the hamburgers in a level.

Place a monitor on it, have it lower it show when you step too close

This remind me to GlaDos from Portal videogames...

This was a great watch, good content. You're inspirational!

He should add a extendable arm like a crane so it can reach more stuff and then retract back in and also add a powered rail system of sorts on the ceiling and some mechanism to get by the door frames maybe like the arm lifting itself to the other side of the door frame were it meets another rail were its put back on it kinda like the Chinese space station arm but with a rail instead or something else going through out the house so it can go anywhere in the house and grab or do any boring task that wastes minutes of your life that you cant get back just like the people who reply to comments like this to say its dumb for no reason when in reality they dont look in the mirror to realize how judgmental they are and why they shouldnt be making fun of others when there just as dumb an probably have a much more terrible life than the person that there makin fun of so they take it out on others there the lowlifes of the internet watch this comment will still mess with them because there dumb haters who haven’t realized this was just to piss them off

I feel like it needs stronger, more controllable servos.

@Jelle  Vermandere  Good content.  On a health note, I suggest you consume more omega-3s because the inflammation you are experiencing in your skin is going to catch up to you with other medical conditions as all chronic conditions involve chronic inflammation.  Western diet is high in omega-6s and low in omega-3s humans should be consuming a ratio near 1:1 otherwise inflammation will begin in various organs.    You can check pubmed research on this PMC7037798 and PMC6213446 but there is many more papers on this concept available.

Can't tell if you're joking, but i am sure it's "Yell-uh"

Next you create a face recocnition and programm JARVIS from Ironman

Webcam it and teach to fallows you. So you can give it to hold tools, camera and to do timelapses

You should be careful with neurotoxins

Make it precisely

I've been wanting to do something like this since I first saw Portal. Planning to build a small-scale GLaDOS to act as a smart home hub, and to have other useful features, like a tracking light source, Kinect camera for scanning, speakers, and room for expandability. It's hard finding the time though to dedicate to a project like that, but hopefully someday.

Arms

Some of the highest quality engineering&art content on youtube right now.  Keep it up!

for a camera i suggest you to use a 3 axis gimble

Make it take over the world

11:12 Eddy

Now you can make it with eye-tracking so you don’t have to worry about your position when is recording you.

smooothing out the motion look bit jerky could buff it with belts and nema 17 motors and ad 3 position stop point and motion to smooth it out in one motion 1 point and give it a extended range because bit short dont see how it help when cant reach anything in the room

The subtitles are all over the place :(

You can put small camera on it and following you

You are a gem my friend! Enjoyed the video throughout.

why this video isnt at least at 10 million views

Pov: 1:59 every flingsmash boss

THAT'S. SO. COOL. BRUH.

awesome project, it would be interesting to see if you could change the gear ratio to make the arm move smoothly, you could easily use something like a modified voron m4 extruder

idd make the end of the arm a motor, so you can make gear box attach ments and hold heavir things.   Now this might be stretching it, but then you could make the robot arm shoot a nerf gun or  blow a fan using the gear s to blade.

I’m starting my own robotics/engineering channel! About to go to a robotics competition and I think you would enjoy my upcoming content. Be one of my first subs to see the cool action and robots!

I am glados

You can make a shelf where the arm can get you tools or some water idk

Blender or unity?

just an idea for the future you could make it so it tracks you using a badge or marker of some sort soit can follow and film at the same time

Reminds me of the robot from Project Hail Marry

Control it with voice commands. Or you think you cant do that?  Question is, how overengineered is enough? Training it to recognize and pick up objects would be cool, but then at that point we're basically into A.I.   Do you really want potentially sentient technology in your room? Fuck, I want my own Jarvis. xD

9:05 this is actually a whole dome lol, or a half sphere, or a hemisphere

I think you could make it integrated with your led ring. You could have a smart led light bulb at the end, and it could have some preset sequence of movements programmed to randomly move throughout the day.

Fly: Goes on top of a cow to rest Cow: 4:31

Bro you just taught me newton meters, and I understand it wtf

now put face tracking with it and have it follow you with the camera

I saw the entire video and by the content and editing tought you had like 1Million subs! Man... This chanel is so underrated! You got a new subscriber!

this is very cool. you should look into SCARA bots. instead of running servos inside the bot, it uses belts and you can have significantly stronger motors mounted at the ceiling.

Petition for Jelle to get 10m

You are so underrated!

Idea: add some smoothing to the servos so they don't jerk around so much. Jerky robots have a tendency to spill drinks...

Get a camera for the robot and teach it to pick up/ track objects

it seems weak

you should add a script to make it follow you so you can use the camera on it with better ease

Make it voice controlled

Mount ai camera

New sub

Dude that is legitimately one of the best homemade robot videos I have seen! So so good!

This is awesome dude!!

the edition of this videos is pretty unique in this field, congrats! the end product is really a please to watch

One day, one day I’ll have a portable camera arm that fits somewhat into a case. It’d be fun to or see people on site react

This is the first video i am watching from you and i had to stop at 2min and give you cudos(idk how to write that and wont look it up now) for the powerpuff girls edit xD

9:58 Emergency stop button

7:00 Co-ordinates. I’ve been thinking about making my arm for years. Why have I never thought that maybe the co-ordinates should be polar or at least the unis away from the origin. Huh. Neat. That just made me think of that.

Man, your channel is amazing! I'm not one for leaving comments, but this is superb! Keep up the good work

You need to add a small video camera to the arm and use machine learning so it can detect you and follow you around.  Add some voice commands to control it, put a strong grabber hand on it with some sensors, and get it to detect where your hands roughly are. then you can ask it to hold stuff for you and it will reach out to where your hand is and open its grabber, waiting for you to pass an item to it.   This is a cool project, I think you've only scratched the surface of what is possible with this thing.

replacing .cs with .py to turn csharp code into python made me laugh way more than it should have, as someone who rewrote the same algorithm in 3 languages with only 1 reference it was way too funny to just watch you go "changing filetype should do it."

You literally made the thing that I've been dreaming about

A lot of people thought of making a robot arm. How many really did ? You really are inspirational, and funny on top of that !

Instead of using sorrows you should use stepper motors for the rest of the joints are not just the base that way it'll be a smoother transition transition on movement and says of all the jerkindness of the sorrows

You ever seen that movie from the 1980s Flight of the Navigator? Your ceiling needs a rail system.

I’m 7 minutes into your video and I just wanted to say that this is the highest quality video I have watched in a long time. I love the creative energy from this and I can’t wait to see the arm in action! Keep being awesome B]

i get it, you have no friends

I hope this video blows up	. I just found this channel today and it is very underrated

Very interesting all the skills needed to make this: math, physics, 3d modeling, 3d animation, unity c#, raspberry pi with python, html, css, javascript, web server, electronics, cutting metal, and much more! liked and subbed, amazing channel :)

It would be fantastic if you made something alike? Just mount the arm you already made to a wall. Also, it might be fun to try and improve it with metal pieces.

hey brick Science i love your channel

Whhwhaahiaisbkssoieegeie😮

why are you here bro btw love ur channel

Thank you for your input, Creepy.

@edma06  yes.

basically a computer engineering degree then

You forgot "comedy" and "video scripting + editing"

This was a fun video. Your sense of humor is excellent!

And that's how GLADOS was created

Netjes

robotic arm with garbage hoverboard motors, excellent video

Servos are good for proof-of-concept project, but they are too weak, barely can lift arm itself. For permanent use its better to use stepper motors with planetary gears IMHO

I really love the way how your present your content. Been a follower for a long time

Great project! :) Also funny to see the old belgian plate on your wall.

Make an algorithm that knock you over while reaching after something on the floor

Oh my God I love this

Dude. You should program few positions for cool and useful camera angles. This will be a big chance for even more creative videos =D

Get a sponsor to pay for a more robust Robot Arm. Also add some tracking features so the arm can follow objects and pick them up. Then add a 3d printer to it.

How is this not a million sub channel? The editing and quality of the content is like...Mark Rober levels. You deserve so much more! Earned my sub.

Wow, you put a LOT of work into this video! Thanks a million; this is a perfect, entertaining production demonstrating robot design-build. This is the kind of production  perfect for STEM education. We're looking forward to more!

and this guy has only 49k subs youtube is messed up

let your robot plays your games

I like how you handled those tomatoes

The Powerpuff arm is so funny

Odd comment but, we have the same exact oven as you

Voice controlled robot arm

this is really cool! you should probably have used stepper motors for the arm joints tho, as i dont think servos are very strong (hence the slightly jittery motion)

If you want to see tomato abuse, look no further than michel reeves.

Ha ha ha, your obsession with tomatoes is the best. Cheers from Madrid, neighbour!

More

Tomatoes are disgusting!

@Andreas-gh6is  no

@Andreas-gh6is  this man, horse react him

Glad it made the cut

Stepper motors will skip. He just needs bigger and stronger servos.

@SuperFranzs  Stepper motor and gearing system.

@b03tz  If he can afford the size.

Attach a claw. Give it voice commands. "Come here." will detect you in your room and move near you. "Here you go." closes the claw.  "Thank you" opens the claw.  You can use the robot to hold tools for you, then move through the room and let the robot bring you the tool you gave it.

Kudoś for Eddy! <3

You could attach a camera (perhaps a web cam) to the arm, and then use some computer vision stuff to give movement commands. One thing could be to use a colored ball and use that to program movements, or just get it to come closer.

4:30: The average male in the shower

Hey man, awesome video! I'm having trouble to figure out your code in around the 6th minute of the video because there are to many unknown  variables that are not shown in the screenshot of the code. Could you upload your code somewhere? This would be really helpful for my school robotics arm project. The smoothness of the arm is the coolest part!

The editing on this is amazing

this guy is underrated

Make the robot evevil . It would be funny .

Heel leuk gedaan!!

im calling it right now, this channel is about to blow up with this video

make your robot  a A.I. Because robot are A.l. but your robot is not a A.I so you have to use your owe brian

Amai nice om ineens een collega uit arenberg in mijn recommended te zien 😁

Too underrated for the comedy he does.

Remember,it’s not about "why".It’s about "WHY NOT?".

Not sure if someone has recommended this but using the camera attachments to track you and automatically rotate the arm would be awesome!

Seems like it's inverse kinematics time

You should make a clone so that your system can do more complicated tasks, like pouring a glass of wine into a cup its holding.

The humour, the smooth transitions, the intricate engineering, someone get this guy the recognition he deserves!

make it more stable so its actually useful

Your channel is so great! I've been kind of wondering, what accent do you have?

Yess, i'm still refining the code, but I will publish it eventually

@JelleVermandere thanks! 😃

Wat moeten we anders doen tijdens ons doctoraat? 😅

I'm from belgium 😀

@JelleVermandere  cool

this reminds me of GladOS i think that would be a cool attachment that you could build later on

Your videos are soo good.  I'm going to do what I can so the algorithm gives you some love.

Ooooh. Thank you YouTube algorithm for my new fave channel!

first video from your channel and this is sick! very cool

im on similar strugle, what program you used for the virtual arm ik simulation  ?

Too over the top.. tone it down a bit.

Very well done! I'd add some gears to get more torque out of the servos

12:30: Nice Skybox you got there

try make it an Ai

next video: I Made a farm... in the Middle of my Room!  video number 100: I Made a Universe... in the Middle of my Room!

Do not miss my upcoming video about making a robatic arm

Easing seems like a logical idea, except... there is a stop between each discrete target(easing) movement, so I think it may be even worse than equivalent average speed single linear motion from A to B.

This robot needs a laser! And a nerf gun !

Amazing quality and content! wOW!

really cool work mann ;)

this is so cool! but would itbe possible to put strogher motors at the joints? cuz they see a bit weak for the task

Try to build a camera inside the arm and have it motion tracking? Good luck!

That's awesome !! I hope we will can see more of the robot in usage in the future :)

can i mount it over my bed? asking for a friend

14:28 Make the robot do that!!!

I already ordered some stronger ones!

Tensorflow to track your face with camera

That's so cool! And kudos on the editing too!

You could strap on a flashlight and use it while doing work

This is very cool. You're one of the reason I like my bachelor study so much

Amazing!!!

increadble

Try and make the arm movement smolther

9:24 unsolved rubix cube 10:26 solved rubix cube

Congrats on 49k subs man🥳🍾🍾🥳🎉🎊🎉🎊🥂🥂🎁🥳🥳🍾  Edit:Wow jelle your making stark technology man very cool 😎👍

9:45 And that, people, is why big heavy robots always have big red emergency stop buttons. If that thing goes wrong when you're not looking while it''s hanging over your head it'll prrobably knock the hell out of you with those aluminum profiles

woooo yikes...

Hm... Your 3D prints are getting the same lines that i was getting..... Have you checked if the printer is extruding the ammount it is told to? Like, take the fillament, measure 3cm, mark it, tell the printer to extrude 3cm and then check if it is correct.

This deserves more views

whichh tool do u use

What simulator did you used?

you need some smoothing motion code check James Bruton for some ideas

Helping Others In Their Tough Of Need Is The Best Gift Of Humanity So Your One Click Can Change Whole Life ♥️ ♥️ ♥️

You're seriously underrated.

You're such a great guy who knows how to hide the pain behind these projects and show us only the fun part..

This is actually quite awesome.he made it  seem very easy to code and build though. Iam doing a similar project and it's taking a while for me.

No, not yet, I should try that, thanks for the tip

It's all in Unity

Haha, yeah, it was not easy for sure 😅

You just got your new sub!! Great work dude  :)

wow so many stepper motors. i wouldnt use them for this...

So cool project, keep up with it!!!

I want that in my room.

This is your best vid so far, keep it up!

unity is our boiisssssss

Great projects, I would suggest adding code to manually set a position/ positions and have it as a preset. so you could just press a button for example when you want the arm to lower itself to add an attachment, or position itself for a selfie, or do a panoramic swipe, etc. really cool project :)!

The 3 months I waited I genuinely thought that this video was worth it. Your videos are the best. The amount of editing you do is crazy. And you're projects are super good. Keep it up jelle

How mutch

Try to make it follow your face automatically. It would be so cool!

How did you do those rings lights. Was it  green screen or real?????

Wtf that is so cool

Can you show me your computer setup and the ipad you are using for procreate and garage band

It has been long that you have been posting videos

Wow this is the first video i watch from you.. and definitely will subscribe.. so funny to watch 😍

These videos are just to good!

I think you should start an online store with all of your creation so people can buy them, and try them for themselfs

you deserve more subs

Wow look at that syntax converter go!

It's really interesting and nice video! Thanks! ))

Thanks for being patient with me!

And congratulations for getting nominated for Unity Awards ❤️

you're one of my favourite youtubers I always learn something new from your videos and have a good laugh too you're super talented and I'm keen to watch you go far

Best game dec ever making fun games, funny videos and robots

So so good!

V du

Do cool

This channel is beginning to turn into an engineering channel and frankly, I don't hate it. Keep it up Jelle! I love seeing all the cool stuff you create :D

I think u supposed to be use a plastic arm so it can move very fast and not too heavy when u moving it around

You have to make a robot arm game for your robot arm to play.

Robots are overtaking the world

That's awesome and kinda reminds me at GLaDOS from Portal :)

Jelle just keeps getting better

Dude, I was just thinking about getting/making one of these! xD   ...Except I couldn't actually think of any uses for it, so I was procrastinating.   But now that I see how effective the boxing glove attachment can be at eliminating those pesky greek temples that keep popping up around my room, I think I'll have to get cracking!  Thanks for the entertainment and inspiration. :)

This is so cool! And funny as well, i legitimately laughed so often in this video (The syntax converter got me the most)

You need to make it GLaDOS man

MOJO! JOJOOOOOOOOOOOO!

Tony Stark if he wasn't a billionare

GLaDOS skin! haha btw... is applying the curved function the same as a PID controller function? the movement felt jittery maybe beacause of the servos? 🤔🤔

This is SO COOL!

Genius!

Thanks!

@JelleVermandere  and for getting my vote! Your videos are on a whole other level!

I’m actually starting a similar channel myself! I’m on a robotics team and cool videos are on their way!!

Curse them pesky Greek temples

Did you ever build a robot arm? Much like you, the lack of anything to use a robot for has always been a big de-motivator for me, I don't want to spend so much time and effort building something that ends up just sitting in the corner of the room being a static decoration.

@peytonmac1131  not yet... Maybe someday... XD

The jerk was mainly caused by power fluctuations and the heavy loads, the slim design was a bit constraining on the power aspect

Thanks fan!

@JelleVermandere  voted for you on the Unity Awards.

This sh*t is better than Netflix.

You’re creativity never fails! Keep up the great work!   If you’re looking for ideas, maybe look into AI video recognition? You could make your arm shoot balls at intruders 😝

The quality and effort is incredible!

This. This was the greatest video ever of all time ever on any web site. Might I suggest an Nvidia Jetson along with your raspberry pi though? It's like a raspberry pi (without GPIO though) but it has super cow powers for AI to... maybe make it listen to basic commands? Or perhaps read body language and make it do what you want it to do based on that (I do recommend training it on a real rig though first and then converting it to something lighter (i.e. TF -> TF lite) Edit: or use a camera module to easily hand you a hammer and look where your hand is, or use a camera to put water in a glass automatically

It would be very cool to see the robot arm play some board games like Jenga or something

This genuinely helped with my robotics class (I borrowed your arm design & code) and my grade should be above passing soon! Edit: you are also super good at video editing.

Is this video too hard to do like this I am just asking because you upload videos slowly I forgot about you

Always love your works. Ps: I liked seeing your mouth actually move while talking for the first time I think since you create this channel.

nice video :) I would suggest you use stronger servos, the arm would move a lot smoother with them

Sweet project!

This is so cool! You shall try using tele op so you can control its using vr i guess?

maybe you need a better soundtrack for your videos? this music makes the video seem a lot lower quality, try ambient (example Sebastian Lague) and lofi

damn, the videography was very cool, and the arm as well, btw what was the rough budget for this arm?

Indrukwekkende robot ! Congratz !

Great video, Jelle! Very charismatic, as always. I can't wait for the day you turn your house into a space station.

Absolutely amazing, always love your videos man <3

Could you make a VR game with the addition that the robot holds object you can interact with in the game?

I Love your content so much , keep the good like quality   ... many thanks

Jelle, you are a genius

amazing video

or you could make the arm shoot intruders in the balls

@gizmoduuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu2773  why not both XD

that’s a great idea!

haha, that was pretty quick!

yes, something like that, or just as a idea,  as ist, 3d printed, do some sort of gear wheel with the servo, being used as small gear cog?, driving the larger gear cog? as part of the arms body maybe also the bigger gear has the teeth on the inside of the arms case as a all in one keep the space and weight down?

about 200€ I think, the biggest cost were the servos (and some broken parts 😅)

i’ll be vlogging from my mars habitat

The quality on this video is top notch. Love the animations and how everything flows together

Awesome! You should definitely try to build glados from portal  based on this!

These videos are incredible I hope your channel keeps growning.

uploading after a long time  You Make My Day  Many thing to learn from you:)

epik copl that u made a robot

You should make the robot arm follow your face using face detection and python.   Love your content btw;)

damn hella production value for a smallish channel

Dude this video is awesome! Just found you in my recommendations and you’ve definitely got a new subscriber! I can only imagine how much time went into making this! Keep going!

Voice control

damn, this is soooo cool!

U can add a 360 degree camera eye and an AI you can ask where things are in your room. The arm then points to the respective object or were it saw it the last time. Maybe add a Laser pointer because Laser!

nice video

Jelle is like that kid that always said I want to be an engineer, a programmer and a robotist when I grow up! But he actually did it XD

get a fade

THIS IS SO AWESOME!! Definitely your best video!

I don't know about Robots, But you are very cool.

Imagine teaching your arm robot to play a game

He made a little GLaDOS and I love it

much like the star spangled hand of god i would always like MOAR POWAR!!, but all the wonderful details and incredibly clever ideas in your videos are just a joy to watch. fantastic job! you have been granted notification privileges. can't wait to see what else you come up with!

I love it

they are a lot of work, but it’s definitely fun!

LASERS!

SPOILERS!!

I definitely need moar power!

Jelle: Updates Me: Smashes like Me: starts the video You're very underrated for the amount of work put into this! Nice vid!

Wow je ne m'attendez pas du tout à voir une vidéo sur un si jolie et magnifique bras mécanique fait maison ! Ce genre de machine mon toujours passionnée mais je n'ai jamais vraiment réfléchis sur le comment le faire.  Bref je sens grâce a vous je sais ce que je vais construire chez moi là ^^  tldr; Thanks you a lots !

You should use vosk or similar libraries to voice control the arm (or integrate it with Alexa)

How many hours did you stent on that(Not the robo arm thats easy)

We have now entered the JCU (Jelle Cinematic Universe)

I am boy :)  I love how you just create stuff's in practical life and eventually on computer.. I can see the whole hard work through this video.. Take rest and great video :)

this is starting to look like GLaDOS from portal

AI that tracks your face and follows it!

lol 😱😱😱😱😱😱

This is legitimately the coolest channel. Amazing job (as always) Jelle! 🍻

You're a LEGEND! Thanks for this epic Adventure. Good luck for the Unity award thingy!

Maybe make some commands and bind them to buttons for example: pour some water, the robot will pour some water into a cup (and maybe even add ai to find where the cup is)

The robot won't punch you in the face, right?

Very cool

Now I need to get a robot arm for my office

I loved all the nice effects and transitions you put into this video. It turned out great!

I’m the first to watch the video weeee

Really excited..

I am here early

Nice video 👍 keep it

Me 10 mins in: this is a great video! I gotta like it Me: accidentally unlikes video because I already liked it

@pedrosso0  lol so relatable

Merci beaucoup!

Maybe I should give him a voice as well

When was my last video? 😅

Maybe I’ll make a billion dollars per video just like that other cinematic universe 😅

Thanks Nicky!

that would be insanely difficult lol. You need a camera mounted and a separate computer running the AI. And once you know where the cup is you'd need an algorithm to find its distance from the arm. And I have no clue how you would do that manageably. You could have massive screens on the walls that the machine can compare too for distance but that would ruin the walls. Then it would need an algorithm to find the shape of the object and how to grip it.

The boxing glove is pretty soft, don't worry 😅

Watch out! I heard they like to rebel from time to time 😬

Thanks! Glad you liked it!

173 view

New video pog!

if you like this video, you're not the only one! I got nominated for both "best devlog" and "entertainment value" on the Unity Awards! Go vote here: https://awards.unity.com

which mac computer are you using?  Btw nice work 👌

I still believe you’re underrated with how much editing and funny moments you do

Cool!!!

I can’t wait to see this video!

Yes I'm finally early

YAY another great jelle video

Finally!

I really dont know what to say to appreciat the effort you put in your video and hoping that youll win the award also waiting for the return of the arm in future video

Lets see if was for me u wold win both 🎉

Sorry I can't sign my self my brother and mom sign me in every thing but I don't how to use untiy And my computer is so bad it has 3 gb of ram something else my keyboard is dumb it types until but I want to say untiy I hope that you will win this🙂

Highly deserved man

Can you make im a glados costume ? =3

I mean wouldn't it be far simpler to create a mini model that has stepper motors as well so it can move into the position of the one in your room and then also use the inbuilt sensors of the motors to tell where you are moving it and how fast? You could even save motions for macros.   If I ever buy some raspberry Pis and enough stepper and or servo motors I would basically do that except I would want to make a arm shaped rig that also has multiple camera rigs so you can see what is happening or even possibly control it through a VR headset should the software for the stream not have too much of a delay!

you should make it to where it offers you a fist bump everytime you walk into the room

it's a hackintosh, don't tell anyone 🤫

@JelleVermandere  nice😅😂

Totally agree

just found this channel and was super impressed

the "funny moments" actually got in the way of me enjoying the video.

@freshbread5373  same, very excited to xwatch those videos!!

Exactly what I was going to say

When I see your face I'm always confused that your voice doesn't look like it belongs to you XD

Agree

That's YouTube algorithm for you

Exactly

True

that's because of the many cringy moments as well

Yeah I agree

I agree

Totally :washhands::washhands::washhands:

@freshbread5373   same

Exactly

agreed

Not overrated im sure that this is more than enough for anybody

Yeah, but do you want him to be overrated?

So true

@freshbread5373  same

that's something an american would write, LOL!

Facts

