Where is the power supply coming from?

hii can you let me know about the connections you have made in pcb board im struggling to understand

anything relatde to Arsuinos is a waste of time!

can i use sg90 servos instead

Hey I want to buy wireless animatronic hand for my clg project. Is it possible?

Please make a wireless version!

Ok I need 3d printer

Gloves link

this is great project i'am also building the same can you let me know which components are required as soon as possible

great,separate power supply for the servos is better in order not to fry the Arduino.hope next is controlling it remotely,thanks very much for sharing .

Did you share the files to 3D print the hand? I am interested in working on this with my students. Great project.

puppet not robot

i cant use analong pins A4 and A5 for flex sensor

o melhor

Hey can i get that components

thank you

i am studying in IITM i need support of u i want to create the same please give me ur phone number or g mail i want to have a consern from a expert like u

Pls do for the wireless

Please sir you can provide me a these coding urgent  🙏

Can we use a breadboard instead of zero PCB board

Arent the models on his Website?

Yes ofcourse we can use a breadboard instead of pcb

were is the code

Where can we buy this gloves

Nice

Don't we need to connect any battery? In PCB design three is no battery connected.

Can you attach the 3D design part?

can you help me, Please! Flex sensor causes the arm to contract when bent but remains stationary when released, how to extension the arm when I release flex like u? I hope you will answer for me, this is extremely important for my thesis :((

Is codind compilsary

Please I need the 3d file for my project if u can send me 🙏

Nice project

why u didnt use battery

have you made a wireless version?

why flex sensors are so expensive, people who bought flex sensors can you send link??

Code and 3D files are not opening

Great work! Can the hand positions you make be recorded for playback? Also, do you have an idea about the grip strength?

I have just started working with physical computing as an artist and this is the perfect project to get started with. I thought it was going to be too complex for me to start, but your comprehensive video is going to help massively with my projects, thank you

i made this but the not working properly, it keeps rotating by itself the servo motors two of them given the same code as the vedio, please resolve this issue asap.

"this is a very simple porject" proceed to print a hand and build circuits... while the thumbnails of other video are -> Building a Robot hand why is so hard -

you could not explain anything well

Lovely 😍 ! What If I use a 2.2 flex sensor? (WIll they do the same job?)

Wireless please

How can I get 3d hands print design? any blueprint for it?

he is acctually using 2.2 in flex sensor

Perfect! thank you for your explanation. You win a follower!

From where I get these white components??

pls make a wireless version

really good work , litterally the best video i found , BIG UP . please make a version using a muscle sensors

Dude u failure u forgot to mention the PCB in the parts list on ur website -_- and ur video

Great and simple project, you earned yourself a subscription! Would you mind sharing the material used to 3D print the parts? palm? fingers?

can you please post the wireless one

Lets do the wireless

14:32

please share G code of arm

where do you buy all the stuffs

Hey could you please give us the file to the 3d prints. It would be very beneficial. Thank you 🙏

No response from flex sensor 😢

I need wireless one

Bro I need that 3d files

Wow great project.  What's the total  cost for this project?

please answer my question, can the flex sensor 2,2 be replaced with IR sensor or potentiometer?

Hey I liked it could you please share the program I need it and can you please explain the rotation angle calculation in program in hindi please

Brother how to provide power

bro plz make wire less arm soon i really need help with that

That's why I'm here still searching about it.

It is given in the website in the description

6900 I TRIED THIS  THIS IS BIT TOUGH YOU MIGHT NEED SOME ELECTRICIANS HELP

@venkateshprabhu1151  I'm in my final year and I want to make this project in my major project. Can you help me please. I will try to make according to you but I will stuck anywhere so I need your help sir.

@niteshsingh5762 did you make this project?

@venkateshprabhu1151 can you please share me the picture of your project?

did u get to know how???

Can you tell me the weight of each 3d printed fingers Because we've bought 9g servo motors , if your model weighs more than it , we need make the model small So kindly reply this.....

WE NEED A WIRELESS ONE!!

what program did you use for 3D modeling?

SIR HAND MATERIAL KAISE BANAYE

I WANT WIRELESS

is it possible to control wrist?

What is the material used for making the hand?? Please reply 🙏

Can you give me the direct link of all components with quantities of it ? (Amazon Link) Please and 3d hand also please and really nice video!!!

Этот протез был сделан очень давно 3 д модель не его она взята с гитхаба ничего тут его нет ! Зачем выставлять видео за свое! Удали

Bro plz upload wireless version

can we test it virtually?

Excellent work!

Nice project

Can you send me 3d file pleas for my project

Can you please send me a circuit diagram and code for a wireless Bluetooth version? Thanks

Can you make a video and go over the pct and resistors?

Which PCB Design you have used can you share Gerber file for that..??

Alguém pode explicar oque é a placa verde que fica na luvas?

which 3d printer are you using

please make a wireless version with the  whole forearm and bicep if u can.(i kno u will me able to make it but still)

yes we do please can we get a wireless version

Plastic

Its a green protoboard

Waiting For Wireless Virsion

That's really awesome!  Can you send or attach a file with the 3d design part?

Can i use simple gear motors??

Can you give the file of all the 3d parts???

Bro can you make this for me  How cost i will pay

From where the motors are getting a power supply??

brother.......what's the IC used on the pcb..??.. with all resistors soldered

can u make a custom pcb

Wow, this is a really well-made video. Thank you! I am a student and hope to design something like this in the future, so this is very inspiring. I would love to see more videos related to this project.

make wireless using by nrf

Which model of aurdino is used in this project

can we get the wireless version please? also can this be done in javascript?

Sir. Wo home automation par wifi reset button kase add karenge send me code plz

I should these robot hand

Awesome 👍 Thank you

How to buy hand parts

Make it wireless

We want wireless

Wireless module

Can i get the 3d part files

Check the link in the description for the website which has the 3d parts code

Arduino uno

No, the arduino ide only allows C++/C

It's 3d printed . Find the Gerber files in the website and then u have to print it

Nice. Can you please make driver drowsiness detection system using raspberry pi and usb camera

Meke small robot android

Bhai Apki video bhut der ma ati ha plase thore jladi gera kro

Veryyyyyyyy smartttt!!!🥰🥰🥰😍😍

Nice video लगी आग 🔥एक बार ये video जरूर देखें, कैसे वायरल हुआ my first vlog 👇👇👇 👉https://youtu.be/ADih7fZWdYI

Which software do you use making schematic and and diagrams.

Awesome as always 🔥

Bro from where we can buy this things,

Thank you i am waiting for this❤️

Awesome buddy❤️

Wow thnks you. Nice project

Nice Project

Thank you from Algeria

Thankyou 😍😌

Fritzing

Amazon, Flyrobo, Robu

