Nice

Helpful,thanks😊

thank you.   when are you change any line or copy an line  the swift at the back is all time on?  where is the key  posytion? when  I want some change the serwo mast be on?    2000 model is deferent . 😢

That was really helpful! I tried to figure out myself how to operate a picker, but the Yaskawa user interface isn't really intuitive.

How to get program back up from the teach pendent

The video was extremely helpful. Thank you. I get to power on the FS100 and try the robotic arm.

Excellent.......

Thanks excellent video

Troppo veloce i sottoutilizzate non si riesce a seguire il passo

I need the CD (with the pre-installed system version) distributed from the Yaskawa design division on the personal computer, to repair a dx200 control, someone who has it can send it to me please

Mujhe robotic me ana hai please reply me

YASKAWA  : ROBÓTICS  :  AUTOMAÇÃO  : HOJE :  FUTURE : TUDO : ROBÓTICS  ; USO : GERAL : INDUSTRY :  ELETRÔNICS : MANUFACTURE ; TOP :  YASKAWA  : ROBÓTICS  :  GLOBAL ; WORLD ; ANO : 2030 : TOP : ROBÓTICS  .

Thanks

Could You make a video on how to remaster a Yaskawa Robot if position is lost?

Excellent basic intro good job 👍

Well your work is directly in sync with my work. Last week our college got a new YASKAWA MotoMINI. and here your video rolls out just in time when i wish to learn about it🥳🥳

Thank you, yeah yaskawa and fanuc are a little peculiar, old style menus.

I'm sure you probably figured it out, but in any case you can select main menu on the bottom left and then JOB.

Glad it helped. Thank you for your comment

Thank you very much!

Glad you enjoyed it, thank you for your comment

Mi dispiace per questo. Lo terrò a mente per i prossimi video

Sorry we don't have the system CD you are talking about, this robot was bought second hand.

Nice!

Yaskawa good for welding

My pleasure, thank you for watching!

Yes we can make a video in the future, currently we are busy preparing for an exhibition.

you just go to a position you want to generate. then press modify enter to generate that position

Thank you

Haha nice, what a coincidence. Glad to able to help!

