It's so cute~!

I teach High School Engineering (in the states) and seeing you break down robotics into simple Trig allows me to show the students how Geometry is applied in robotics at this basic level.  I hope this will inspire some students to go into robotics.

which software used for camera 3d cad design and simulation??

Hi, do you have any suggestions for a manipulater that can pickup a small , 6mm dia by 18mm tall, item? Thanks

those lulzbot printers seem verry reliable... can you confirm james?

bro could you do one thing could you tell me that which software are using to design robot in computer and how to use it in computer that it will work f and what platform you use to code arduino

thank you so much for teaching me.

Thank You. My Math's sucks.. So this is a very good tutorial for me as I am trying to build a Similar system to yours. ..  Thanks Again.

Great man keep going❤❤

How it will move in straight line while interpolating servos with linear ramp while actual change in degrees cannot be linear when end effector moving in straight line?

Uh, I feel like this demo might be a bit misleading, this is the simplest robotic arm possible, so u can still use simple trig for both forwards and inverse kinematics.  But if you have 6 or even 7, that will no longer work, because there are an infinite number of joint confit that lead to the same answer, and so a inverse Jacobean method would work a million times better, an it allows you to constrain some of those infinite solutions to optimize for things like speed or torque in the end effector.  Also, I’m not quite sure why you used a library for the linear motor movements, that’s just simple algebra, probably even more simple than the trig you did, so it could have been another educational lesson. Also, you could have also used PID control which would’ve worked better anyways, and since u didn’t incorporate the linear interpolation as an educational portion in the video, I’m confused why u didn’t just use PID if you weren’t going to explain it anyway.

The best example what is NOT inverse kinematics. Else your arm would already start to move forward to its drop point once ut picks up the Ball.

Give it a pen and make an etch a sketch!

In truth robots follow a program they have no cognitive ability, they don't use anything. They don't do anything on their own any more than an oscilloscope does. It is a tool. Try sticking to real science and drop the nonsense ideas and employ critical thinking like most of us have done since childhood. If you think you are making it easy for people to understand you are not. You are dumbing it down to your level of knowledge just as Einstein stated. If you can't explain it simply it is because you do not fully understand it yourself. Look at all the deluded subscribers you have. Well done in keeping them well away from us.

Im working through your code and am in the encoder area, can you tell me what sort of motor you are using is please Ive never used an encoded DC motor before. Ive sorted the servos

This is fantastic, if I can understand your code Im going to have a go at implementing this in Meccano. Thank you for sharing your knowledge,

can you do the same with stepper motors and endstops?

I don't know why the arm is dropping the ball so high. The servo can take it lower, and the upper arm should be able to drop the ball softer and closer to the ground.

I've always wanted to build a really overengineered robotic desk lamp.

Awesome.

Yes

thx @jamesbruton

The way he threw out the phrase "simple trigonometry" sent me

You sir, are making the world a better place with your videos.  The inverse kinematics you showed was far simpler than how I imagined it to be.  I was over here trying to use MatLab to create Differential Equations and then setup a robotic simulation with moments of inertia, COM, etc.    Your video ultimately brought me back to the realization that 'baby steps first' would be my best move instead of just leaping into the deep end.  That said, there is nothing that teaches like a project does, and yours are always fun to watch and learn from (like when you built a camera that follows you or the backpack disc that spins to balance you on a beam walk)

I would name her Bottleneck.

hello, thanks for sharing your skills about that topic :)

Brilliant, do you still have the code for the manual control with potentiometers ?? Thanks :D

Fantastic video with a perfect ratio of entertainment and education

😎 cool

Brilliant! YouTube served up your reverse kinematics demo deo up to me, which led me to this video, (right in the middle of your process),  and it all made perfect sense, because you are a gifted teacher.  Subscribed!

This is amazing information for free. Thanks dude.

I've noticed one little thing which is not entirely correct at 11:15 If anyone is building a robotic arm, then keep this in mind: It is true that in most cases it will move in a straight line. I believe this is true for the points you use in this example. But there are cases where the arm has to contract and later extend again. For example at 9:00 you can see the elbow making a sharper angle as it gets down, but towards the end it starts to extend a little bit again. If it would go down further it would rotate in the other direction more. So going from the starting position to the end position would cause it to skip most of its movement which means it won't go in a straight line down. You can also see that the servos don't move at the same speed the whole time. While the arm is going down the elbow servo moves very quickly at the beginning but it slows down near the end.  One way to solve this is to interpolate several coordinates between point A and B and then use the ramp library to interpolate the servo speed between these points. Make sure you're not executing the code faster than the arm can move though. But without feedback on the current position it's hard to make everything move smooth. I'd suggest to make the movements slow at the beginning so you don't run into problems caused by slow servos. Otherwise it may look like your code isn't working properly even though you're going over the servo's limit :)

I HAVE INCURRED SO MUCH LOSSES TRADING ON MY OWN...I TRADE WELL ON DEMO BUT I THINK THE REAL MARKET IS MANIPULATED... CAN ANYONE HELP ME OUT OR AT LEAST TELL ME WHAT I'M DOING WRONG ?

Hi :) I don't really understand the concept with the 45' offset. Sorry, I am new to servos, the milliseconds PWM basically tells the motor to turn for a certain amount of time and that equals the angle that we calculated? So I understand how the shoulder angle inside the first triangle is calculated, but I do not understand how that information is converted into usable information for the servo, because for the right triangle from the shown picture I assume that the servo is a 0 degrees and if you want to move the arm forward it has to turn for a certain amount of degrees, but that angle is not the same as the "shoulder angle" from the right triangle from the starting position, is it? So I think my question is how do you convert the calculated shoulder angle to the rotation of the servo trigonometrically?

NICE love it💝 can you send me the 4 axis robot arm code? pls reply

I have been trying to create a robot dog however when I try to move the legs it doesn't move in a straight line. Is there something I am missing that would fix this?

excellent .. kinematique was crazy very good job Master

Awesome work... love you James

"What is my purpose?"  You pick up ping-pong balls and drop them somewhere else.  It's simple but still interesting to watch.

Unbelievable!

すごい！シンプルな設計だがプログラムに無駄がなく制御がしっかりしていて尊敬します。

@JamesBruton I have some problem in solving inverse and forward kinematics of  4pr parallel  manipulator  .pls help

Sir you are absolute genius

maths

Thanks for sharing, keep it up:)

Please send the link

You have said you are always having online classes 🙂 how can l join

Hi James, can you tell me which software do you use for 3d drawing CAD?

Hey, I tried this code in a game and... The arm goes really weird when I input 1 for the x and 0 for the z value... Like why?  And reprogrammed in python it works.. OH I'M AN IDIOT! I FORGOT TGE ELBOW ANGLE = PI - (SHOULDERANGLE1*2)  KF COURSE IF DOESN'T WORK IF IT'S PI DEGREES OFF! oh, and it divides by 0.

I swear at any moment james could just OWN the r/arduinoprojects or r/3dprinting subreddits an absolute legend thanks for the introduction into inverse kinematics btw

Do i really need a degree to create this amazing things?

Coming from Macro Reps channel, this hardware is significant downgrade xddd

Your skill with all facets of robotics is truly impressive- concept, 3D design and printing, assembly, math and coding, testing and refinement.  So impressed!

Thank you so much  Very nice video

Hanzhen harmonic drive gear ,  robot arm gear ,  over 30 years experience

Very well explained!

1:31 Could you tell us WHERE to source WHAT parts go into your V-wheel Rollers (that already have bearings inside) as well as the V-slot Extrusion TRACK that the Rollers roll along? Thanx!

If I had patreon I'd build a great ball contraption with bowling balls

I like that servo, big bold 20 kg cm, which is 0.2 Newton meters. That means a 2 cm diameter primary spur gear would yield about 18.79 kg of force, however, keep in mind that it is at the servo's rated rpm, which is probably very slow to give such high torque.

Have you done your graduation in mechanical engineering

Yes I agree, the googly eyes would make this video help me even more than it has already (thanks for that)

I'll NEVER need trigonometry, I said...  🤦

Thanks so much for this James. I've been watching through a bunch of your videos again while at work (I'm a D.E. teacher - coding of various kins, and robotics (using Robbo)). I had bought one of those cheap robotic arm kits from Lazada, to which I added the servos and an Arduino. At first I coded it to work sequentially, which was all I knew how to do, so arm rotation, then vertical arm movement, then the claw. It randomly selects a position by choosing numbers in the pre-defined range of movement for each servo. But, while watching this video, and others, I worked out a way to program simultaneous movement. I'm not using timing, or anything like that. It takes the current position for each servo, and the newly selected position, calculates the difference for each servo, then divides by 100. I then have a loop of 100 iterations that adjusts the position of each servo in the required direction be adding or subtracting the number and writing to the servo for each iteration of the loop. So, I have a relatively smooth transition of all three servos from current to new position. The claw is changed separately after the arm finishes moving. The servos for this arm are SG90s, so they're a bit rough a jittery, but they do the job. I've also added LEDs that light up when each part of the code is being executed and I hope to add a 2 row LCD display to show the position numbers for each servo while it is operating. The robot is mounted on the back wall of my classroom purely as a demo piece, so serves no practical functionality except the most important one - to inspire my students. Thanks again for your awesome channel! I actually feel like building a bigger arm now from scratch, perhaps using PVC piping and 3D printed joints, or metal joints, like in your example here. Hmmm!

This is the 10th time I’ve watched this trying to understand this.

it's anoying how much time, material, and energy is wasted printig pieces that didn't need printing.  most of the structural parts of this build could've been made with cardboard, or at least less material. i doubt this contraption is ever going to do some real work, and so, it doesnt need to be built like a tank!  i admire the problem solving in this video, and commend the build for being effective, robust, and reasonably dependable for what it is. all i want to say is please try to be more mindful of the time and material you waste in printing non critical parts that can be easily fabricated with different materials...

A sensor to detect when balls are present  Baby where can I get one of those?

I heard about this from the crackhead micheal reeves

Hi there, I would like to make grippers for my bioloid premium robot

Math, the single, most powerful language ever devised. It's multi-lingual infinitum :)

can't we move the arm when it moves side by side?

It needs a track so when it drops the ball it just rolls back to the start and does it all over again lol

Great video.   the math is a lot easier than I thought it would be.

I just wonder how you set up IK for a physical object. I've mostly been aware of IK through my hobbies working on 3D characters in blender.

Its "Math Is Fun" not "Maths Is Fun" even if it is supposed to be "maths." This is because Math Is Fun is an old US thing from the early 2000's

This is one of the simplest practical demonstrations of inverse kinematics i have ever seen. Hats of to you James!

What are those long power & signal cables he's using? I'm just getting started with robotics and so far I've only been able to find the fairly short dupont GPIO cables. Is there any common type of cable used for these things? Thanks!

"great ball contraption" - giggles, yes I am 2

You could add a rotation axis to the base of the arm and make this bit a hub to randomly select different paths for the balls to take. All of which, eventually, end up back here at the hub. Either way, this is a great explanation and demonstration.

#CYCLOIDALDISKS

Haha great ball contraption... . . . . . . . . . . . That's what she said

This is why we have youtube Brilliant description Thanks for sharing

where you get the wires bent?

It's mostly just wire off the roll soldered to pinstrip etc

@jamesbruton  awesome, thanks for the response! Do I have to look for any specific kind of wire or can I just buy the thinnest electrical wire I can find?

If anyone wonders in the future: I've done some further searching and it looks like the usual GPIO dupont cables are 28AWG copper wire, so I'll be getting me some of that.

This is great,but your doing too much work at the end of the video.  Build a simple ramp (with dowels or wire) to return the ball to the start and let your robot arm perform its sisyphean task.

Thank you for this video, it was excellent. So far, I've only been taught the very basics of kinematics at Uni as it is not really my field. I don't know why, but it didn't occur to me that trigonometry was being used so extensively to control robots. All these applications for triangle calculations never cease to amaze me. I will have to try and build this myself immediately 😎👍

Genius Video ! Thank you so much

Can you please make a camera slider robot arm just like this.

love the vid but why do you call z axis zed axis? how do you pronounce  zero, zedero or zebra zedebra i dont get it and i assume your speaking in english. No offense im just confused.

Instead of atan(z/x), you might want to use atan2(z,x) to deal with quadrant ambiguity.

Great video...keep inspiring us...

12:04 it's beautiful. I have looked at this for 5 hours now...

What type of v slot extrusion do you use and plz send link for the motor and v wheels, thanks!

A sideways SCARA without its third rotating axis :)

You should investigate the use of transformation matrices when doing kinematics. Super simple doing complex 3D forward/inverse kinematics of n link robot arms or anything really with trig.

You like gears, I wonder if you have seen this: https://youtu.be/xWVA6TeUKYU

I actually quite enjoyed (inverse)kinematics in college. Which is weird, since it's a lot of trygonometry and geometry (which I hate) and algebra (which I dislike).

Got a recommendation on youtube to watch some of your videos about robotics and I didn't know why given all my recent searches are for procedural animation. A few hours later youtube recommends this to me and now I understand. I see your tricks youtube.

Anyone going to yell at him for saying cos instead of cosine? No? No one? Okay, just me.

I need to program a lego robot in the way that starts at 100 and that its speed is reduced smoothly if I do a challenge initial acceleration plus second onchronometer less deceleration value 10 of speed I cannot make a slow decrease since the graph gives as a result  a linear function.  By dividing the initial sum by dividing the speed line, we achieve a deceleration limit where the robot will never slow down, since each time the digits of the denominator are larger and a quotient close to zero is obtained.  worse wue never is zero the graph does not touch zero.  How do I have to make the deceleration slow and smooth? How can I have a formula in a numerical nlowe to achieve that?  I have to use a logarithm to get a curve as the formula gives the function of the velocity graph?

Thanks, James! Looks like kinematics are not so complicated after all.

how do you not have more subscribers.... this is some real amazing stuff you are doing! keap up the good work

isnt this the guy that made those sick iron man cosplay suits

Where do you get your motors with encoders?

The balls go onto the next stage...

and plz send link for skrews and bolts and nuts too

I mean 2D inverse kinematics aren't that complicated--add a 3rd dimension an rotation and it gets pretty complicated. Wonderful explanation of the basics of inverse kinematics, but glosses over the intricacies that make inverse kinematics so daunting. Oh well, maybe in another video

Hi James, nice video in kinematics, but you made me cringe when you said L289, it can do 2A an axis, but how much are you loosing in power?

Big fan of the break down video of the madness that happens in the background of all of your other videos!!

Subtitules in spanish??

hello , i want to ask  you which program you  use and were I can find it ;;;;

Woow!! how do you configure speed of the servo motor?

Sir I can't upload the code in arduino uno. Can you help me  . There is a error in coding.  Please help me sir

First of, thanks for the video! Code for the absolute coordinate is a bit weird. You computed the shoulderAngle2Degrees and shoulderAngle1Degrees but did not do angle arithmetic to calculate the final angle. Instead, you converted both to pwm secs and subtracted the two values in servo write which can be easily overlooked.

do you have a Discord server?

You should build that hitec platfor from iron man that automaticaly  suits you up to iron man suit.

Automatic beer grabber

Hello one question. Have you ever considered creating a robotics course on udemy? I would love to learn.

I wanna be a patreon, but i m still a school student.....  This is AWESOME!

WOW! No words can explain how impressed I am by this! GREAT Explanation!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Hy James awesome video as always. But I have one question for you ->  How much time required while making this project.  I am asking this because for me sometimes even a very small project takes one or two weeks to complete and then I start to wonder that I am not doing anything wrong.

i could stare at your robots 'till i go blind. I'll have to build one for myself one day.

i posted this comment at 4:20 am

3d printer is Boon to Humankind

Ok, now you have to do a video on the chatter phone robot thing in the background. I'll subscribe if you do.

thank you very much for this good video it help me a lot !

I love how this is even used in video games for almost anything dynamically animated. The best example is VR, inverse kinematics is used to calculate where the elbow should be located based off of your shoulders and hands in-game.  Thanks so much for this video! It really helps introduce me to IK which I was always scared of learning, great job breaking down the math behind it to make it sound really simple and straight forward.

Probably a lot - those things are 10 year+ old, but it was fine for this project

Liked and subscribed. Amazing video, I love how you broke down every facet of the biuld.

you can tell the guy in the video is going to be British just from the title because it says "maths" instead of "math"

Can you share a link to where we can find the servos please.

awesome

I'm seeing something like this automatically plugging in my EV whenever I park in my garage. 🤔

“The great ball contraption” “The high voltage ball accelerator” Great naming scheme Monsieur Bruton

hey james have you seen  the 3d printed linear actuator retsetman posted?, it lifts over 20kg! would be really cool to see a set tried out on project X

haha nerd

What is my purpose? You pass butter.

This guy put to shame to all the groups of people who went to robot conventions and failed to make their robot walk

7:26  - Couldn't you just calculate z2 by using z2 = sqrt( x² + z² )  instead of calculating "shoulderAngle2a" ?

This is the exact sort of project I've been looking at learning about new 3d printer on order soon 🤘

Ok, now you level up and using a physic engine like Unity 3D for anticipate to next step of animation but you need install sensors to robot

Loved the math for this one - would it be possible to add in the kinematics equations to use the arm to toss a ball into the air and then catch it by matching its trajectory with the arm (likely needing a much better feedback/encoding system)?

I want to learn how to do this

I keep swapping kinematics and inverse kinematics around. Luckily my robot has both built in. This is a nice and simple example and looks like a scara robot that is tilted 90 deg. on the X-axis. Programming a robot in cartesian coordinates can be difficult due to "singularities". I've had a few errors where the robot controller (Kuka KR180) would report a singularity error and not move at all but I have also had some strange movements that resulted in an overload on one of the axes. At that time, the robot performs an abrupt E-stop which is not that funny when 50 kg of mass is being moved... I actually checked the massive bolts that are used to mount the robot on the floor to see if they were not damaged.

I think it would demonstrate the effect better if it was not doing the exact movement each time, as it just looks preprogrammed. Say you had two ball feeders and it would move directly to the position right above the next ball, perhaps starting the downwards motion only when a ball has been detected so it would start the straight line towards the ball feeder at different positions on the rail.

So you’ve essentially built a pick and place machine. Really cool!

This robot is missing an important feature: googly eyes.

Cool, I'd love to see the same done with a typical ramps board and gcode as well

​@Cooper Cole shut it bot

@Flynn Skyler shut it bot

I agree

Interesting how you simplfy the maths. Anything requiring pseudo inverses needs at least a sbc.

This is actually more interesting, then watching a video of a industrial robot, bounce a bowling ball.

1M subs??  IT'S SO CLOSE !!!

Nice demonstration! I notice sometimes you also talk about having a low or high "integral value" as you tweak things, what does this mean? Is it related to the IK model? I'm currently taking calculus 3 but not sure what you mean in those applications.

I'm waiting for ur next full setup video ❤❤💕💕

that would be neat as a sorter/randomizer, to take the balls randomly to multiple contraptions!

Giving me Marble Machine X vibes. Need a @Wintergatan collab!

Best.  Channel.  On.  YouTube.

"What is my purpose?" ... "Oh my god..."

This is really cool. And I am looking forward to seeing the great ball contraption completed. As I watch this, I wonder if it would be easy to change the gripper to be 90 degrees to what it is now, and shaped like a ducks bill, and feed the balls at 90 degrees to what it is doing here to help with it picking the balls up while looking like a duck. :)

You should name the robot Sisyphus, every time it completes its task you reload the ramp, it will never finish.

Everything is really cool ,but when are you going to show everything together ?

Your prints seem so big compared to what I'm used to printing... I'm curious what your filament diameter is, and layer thickness.

I finally managed to get ros2 installed and working. my brain hurts already. damn you and your inspiration James, damn you!

Just need a 2nd one and they can go forever playing “your ball! No! Your ball!”

I think it would have been funny if you had it pick it up and then put it back at the end of the queue

Oddly enough I think this is my favorite robot ! it's really cool and seems somehow more accessible (still love the dogs !)...cheers.

It feel so easy with you ! Great job very good for education !

Have you reached out to other Brit YT channels to see if they want to build a piece of the GBC?  This could be big.

Please take me as your apprentice

Actually, as a sorter, the photodiode could be replaced with something to sense 3 colors, and it could indeed do some sorting of colored balls

"You drop balls."

I happen, to know there are other personalities on this site, named James. Allow me, to introduce myself, I'm the other James. There's another one, he's in Canada somewhere.

I'm your 69 th like lol

bro get this man back on the algorithm

I think this would make a great distribution point where the arm can deliver balls to different sections, just by stopping it's linear axis at different locations. i.e. the static ball accelerator or the coanda effect section

Is there a specific name for those types of servos with mounts on top and bottom? I’ve found some luck with “dual bearing servo” and “robot arm servo” but am looking for some that are high quality and waterproof and can’t find that with these search terms

I love how with channels like this even the ad portion is interesting. No crummy mobile game ad, but actually relevant and useful companies as sponsors

Jurassic Park robotic arm.  Remember?  Egg? Do you breed velociraptors?

I'm interested how we could incorporate animation curves, and if they help even more to smooth out the motion.

how about a robotic arm 3D printer! a 6axis robotic arm! it would be sooo much fun to do!

@James_Bruton    i love where everything is going....   i was wondering  since you have incorporated NERF blaster in past projects  could you consider a  nerf magazine auto loader...   i think this would be a very commercially viable project  i have thought of different forms this could take .... 1.rolling  robot that  picks up nerf darts and loads magazines !! THAT WOULD  BE SOMETHING AMAZING !!!  2 a bin you could just throw some darts into  that would load  magazines   3   a target  with a collection box that  loads magazines ,  so you can do target practice  and have loaded magazines  in the end  .. i think #2 +#3 would be the most practical  and are about the same thing    thanks in advance  if you consider this project  and keep up the good work

I could see that robot moving balls all day long on my desk.  It has some kinda funny action.  Simple and clean.

This is very inspiring! I've been wanting to make something similar recently and I've also been taking trigonometry in college right now, so seeing how you implemented it in inverse kinematics was awesome to see and providing the code too! I find this helpful.

wow, i am just learning  the math behind the movements in my robotic career

Use stepper motors, they are more precise

Maths is fun? Shouldn't it be Maths ARE fun?

I hope you work on the RUR next!

You could even make it "nod" on its way back, with the hand looking similar to a dog's head with the metal-bracket ears. All your dogs and robots seem to have "personality"

BUT what about the SLIP model usde by agility robotics?

Now you just need to set up MoveIT with ros to control this thing!

Hi James I'm enjoying this new series, but I think it needs some googly eyes 👀

Great sir

Pick n place?

Good idea - it could be longer also

thanks, trying to keep them relevant if poss.

@jamesbruton  I tend to actually watch them, was interesting to see they make parts not just circuit boards. Didn't know that.

Yep - the Ramp library does all sorts of curve reponses too.

James, this is so super useful for me!  Thank you!   How much more complicated do the maths get when adding a rotation to one of the joints as well?

This is great stuff! I was hoping for the linear algebra of IK, which I didn't get, but I did get a very nice project doing one task well, with all the details and intermediate steps shown, which is really great. Might use this to show the kid how even a simple task robot has a lot of parts and steps.

I still wondering why you dont use a bench power supply  xD. At least for this kind of projects.

Reminds me of Birdo from Super Mario 2... https://unitedmonkee.files.wordpress.com/2015/08/super-mario-2-birdo.png?w=248

Oh my gosh, Thank you so much James, i've struggled to wrap my head around IK for so long on how it works, I'm doing game dev in uni but could never understood how IK actually works. I've watched videos working with unity but none of them explained this in an easy way like you have, been subscribed to your channel for a while now and was not expecting to learn something i've been wanting to learn in game dev from you. So thank you so much sir! ahaha

really good video, nicely explained. Well done

Awesome video, James! As always. I'm curious as to how long it took you to program this thing? Was there any problem solving or are you very comfortable with these kinds of projects now? :)  Thank you!

#TinyDancer 9:30 Just add T-Rex Costume! #CosPlayRobot

Your videos are clearly made to inspire. But the Components you use (especially the motors) are more of the pricey variety. I would like to see a video, where you go over your "standard components" and explain, why you chose them and not other - I guess oftentimes it's because it was what you had at hand. On the other hand, I would love even more a video where you challenge yourself to only use small 3$ nano-servos and/or 28BYJ-48 Stepper with ULN2003 driver modules --- you know, stuff that kids could afford. These have limited capabilities, but it would be nice to see what they can do in their limits when someone like you uses them.

James: the servos i'm using need a minimum of 6 volts so i'm using a 7.4 volt 2 cell lipo battery Me:uh um ,blah blah

Really appreciate your work!

James: "the cimanitic model can be very simple so you don't need anything more than an 8-bit  ardweeno uno to control all of it" Me who doesn't know what one plus one is 😕

cant wait for the 1m special! hope it will be soon

You could use the arm to transfer ball’s onto multiple parallel paths

Many thanks for this video. It has answered a few more questions regarding robot arm movement. One thought, if I may, to make a more interesting display. Have the movement, down the rail, and raising the ball to its upmost position occur in the same time period.

Could you feed in the horizontal axis and have the arm start reaching before it comes to a stop? Another ramp smoothing between instructions.

Thank you for explaining it👍🏻

epic man

I can't believe you've broken down something I was so intimidated about into really lovely trigonometry. Treating each solved distance as a black box for later trig makes it so elegant. Thank you for teaching real skills in your videos. I really appreciate the work you do!

Maybe the robot could detect other color balls and drop those in another location?

It's spelled kinematic if you ever need to write it again 🙂

@oliverer3  thanks

Sounds like an optimization: IF there’s another ball waiting…

Yes, simple examples can be solved with trig, but if you want to get into more advanced robots with high dof's and redundancy, you'll need to rely on numerical methods and understanding of transformation matrices to solve the problem

But what when you want the robot to pick up an object on its own. Like it has a sensor and the robot senses the ball. I just find it really confusing how you would get the position of the sensed object

12:30 Why is this section so mesmerizing?  in lockdown perhaps. I need a 30min video of the balls going round in a looped track

Amazing simple explanation!!! Also quite easy build, probably could be done also with a 3D Printer Stepper for the belt and cheaper servos for the arm as the forces are not so big?

Brilliant! Thanks! Defo more inverse kinematics. A follow on with an arm rotation axis would be great (or even bring in/demo with the slider, so all happens at same time rather than being 2 discrete sets of movement). Still not sure I totally followed (not the maths, good with trig, more the algorithm/process) but will grab the code and see if the comments help and maybe try it out on some servos with taped on pencils or something. There was also another good one you did on minidog for this

just wow :D

11:00 does that same library have a function to interpolate in a sigmoidal shape instead of linearly? A smoothed (sigmoidal) curve would probably look better, be more energy-efficient and expose the objects it moves to less forces

perhaps it would be better for visualisation for the arm to release the ball at some arbitrary location along the Z=axis to prove that the arm isn't just being programmed to drop it in a fixed location (if they didn't bother to watch this video first)

have you considered using the esp8266 or esp32 as cheaper boards which could be bought in bulk for class rooms, they take the same code youre writing

From a software point of view, when working with IK, it's always a good idea to write the forward side as well and check that the results match (within rounding errors). What's shown here is calculated_angles = IK(demand_position). What you would add is calculated_position = K(calculated_angles) where K is a new function to calculation position from angles. Then you check that demand_position = calculated_position (allowing for rounding error). The reason to do this is it will find mistakes in your IK code, if that equality doesn't hold then either IK or K is buggy. Also the K side is often the simpler of the two.

12:09 What the robot hears:  "Standard insertion for a nonstandard specimen. Go ahead, Gordon. Slot the carrier into the analysis port."

thank you very much this is very helpful as this is quite similar to a scara arm(here z-x and in scara x-y by 2 joints) which is my final year project.

This might be good to have right before the wind tunnel part since that was very sensitive to how the balls enter, and this is probably gonna be the most reliable part.

highschool student: trig are useless

You should add gate(s) with special cutout, the profile of the arm. So the arm must be in that exact position to pass through the gate.

By the way any idea how to map inverse kinematic of each leg to body of walking robot

Thanks a lot for this very informative and inspiring video James! The first thing I was thinking of when I saw the gripper was: 'Why not use suction?'. Also learned a thing or two about inverse kinematics. Maybe I'll give it a try in the future!

The interesting thing is if you model on real life - what is the mix in a human/animal between the maths of moving a limb to the right place and the feedback/touch/visual etc that its in the right place?  What would you say - 50/50 or more like 60% feedback, 40% muscle position?

He just casually built a car manufacturing robot model. I bet you could straight up scale it, swap the materials it is made of and use it to build cars.

I use this when making VR games 👌😂

After finally capturing reverse kinematics, the gods decided that his punishment would last for all eternity. He would have to move a ping pong ball from one place to another; upon dropping the ball, the ball would be placed back at the starting position again, leaving reverse kinematics to start over. James sees reverse kinematics as the absurd hero who lives life to the fullest, hates death, and is condemned to a meaningless task. One must imagine reverse kinematics happy.

Something like, the wintergarten, marble machine ?

Although didn't they need to be sorta thrown into that? So perhaps the static accelerator would be better

@xxportalxx.  that being said, the fact that the arm can move at different speeds allows it to "throw" balls, and since the static accelerator is a gimmick anyway, it doesn't get as much speed as it should and may fail. also, it's a Coanda effect staircase. a wind tunnel is a very different thing.

@Bigwings2043  idk I think it would be difficult to have it throw a ball, but perhaps that's the solution.

@xxportalxx.  although it may be difficult to code, I think the fact it is so reliable once you get the coding down makes up for it, whereas the ball accelerator is much more mechanical based, and therefore more unreliable.

@Bigwings2043  the ball accelerator is purely electrostatic, the only mechanical part is a belt being turned against a brush lmfao

@xxportalxx.  yes, but the real balls lose a bit of speed in the exchange, and by mechanical, I meant reliant on what actually happens, not purely run by Arduino. the fact that it is an accelerator means a bit of luck is involved with it coming out correctly. if the real ball is wiggled a bit in the exchange, it will not come out straight, and boom fail. also, sorry for the weird meaning of mechanical. that being said, I am not educated that much in this sort of thing, so I would differ to you if you are more educated on this subject

@Bigwings2043  no no I get what you mean, I just think with the code he wrote releasing the ball while the arm was moving would be a tad challenging. I'd try it with the other device first given that the balls intrinsically come out with some force, and if that proves unreliable I'd think adding a ramp after something like the grain elevator would be an easier solution to implement

i went from a pretty meh math student in middle/highschool to studying physics / tutoring and to be fair,  if im not studying physics or tutoring at the moment i couldnt care less about trigonometry (technically, i still do :^)) but when i do, its pretty essential to have u gotta remember that the majority of people learning trig in school prob wont be using it unless their job is tech or science related

@officer_baitlyn  said so well 👑

​@Officer_Baitlyn, you also forgot the vast majority of trades; trig is literally used daily for construction, without it, buildings would be wonky

To them, it is

The mechanical engineer who designed you car and electronic engineer your cellphone agree that you are the man. Satellites are useless too.

Hello sir can u make water velocity meter using ultrasonic sensor from arduino? for open channel water ways

Awesome

Lovely!

Hi James, have you tried using the Jacobian matrix? It makes solving inverse kinematics pretty easy. Just describe the coordinates of the end effector as a function of the joint angles once and from then on out it's a matter of simple linear algebra!

Maybe you could use could use an air pump to feed balls up an elevator tube. Like a slow low powered potato gun.

So frickin cool :)

Wouldn't this be the best way to feed the Coanda Steps??

👍✨💫

It needs a motor upgrade - more speed!

Another excellent, excellent video! Well explained and demonstrated AND most importantly, your teaching methods are very encouraging, and give the viewers (me!) the idea that I too can attain the same results with a reasonable amount of work. Well done, or as you Brits say, "Brilliant!" Now we just have to teach you guys that there is no such noun as 'Mathematic'.  :))

So question how would I make a robot claw be able to grip something heavier than a ping pong ball would it be a better servo or a change in code cuz I have a robot that won't grasp or lift anything heavier than a ping pong ball and would like it to be able to lift and hold a can

but if you have the spirit, then you can have smart things that automatically do what you have so hard worked for

Thank you so much sir been waiting for this . Really appreciate it

I had to learn the maths for my EPQ project last year and I didn't entirely understand it. Now it makes sense!!!  Great video and can't wait for the next one!

hello suicidal robot from the secret santa in the background. Glad he is still physically alive!

Really like the end effector design. Pretty simple but works very well.

Gooooooooooood

Inverse kinematics gota love them

You haven't seen the complete video yet.

I'm surprised the people who get the videos early aren't first

It's not just a matter of linear algebra, because the forward mapping is nonlinear. Yes, you can still use the inverse Jacobian to run some Newton-Raphson steps, but this isn't exactly easier than, if possible as in this example, directly computing the exact solution with trigonometry tricks. Especially when using a low-powered microcontroller, it's quite advantageous to need only one computation step.

...Though then again, it isn't really necessary to directly compute the target parameters at all – instead, depending on the application it can make a lot of sense to compute only directions of movement, which the Jacobian can directly offer. Then physically following the directions is essentially a mechanical way of solving the nonlinear equations.

diy cnc with dual real axis

robot arm drone blimp

bendy sensor

piezo sensor

you could use a ceiling double railing robot, not a moving floor robot, to do stuff

you have the 2+robot arm degrees of freedom

make it 3, up and down rail too, on the base pad

Jokes on the people who watch videos at a higher speed or hell, just see them on patreon a week ago

@StormBurnX  my brother speeds it up he says I speaks to slow but he doesn't

@380rabbits4  I tend to consume videos at 1.5x speed or if the person talks slow 1.75x speed, but that's certainly not everyone's style and that's OK :)

@StormBurnX  yea I think that's fine I do it sometimes mainly if I'm rushing to school and I want to watch it before not after school

earlyy

I got up at 6:15 I'm very tired

complicated...

4th

Hi

3rd

1

ahh yes very early

I havent gone to sleep yet and its 8:26 am, lolzls

