Dude. This is such an inspiration to me. I'm in my third year of mechanical engineering and I'm planning on going to grad school after I graduate to further study robotics. I have been teaching myself arduino and super basic robotics stuff in between classes in my free time but I have such a long way to go. It is so motivating and inspiring seeing what this field can do when you put the time into it. I would love to know what your education path was like. Did you attend a 4 year university? Graduate school? Self taught? Is this a side hobby or a full time career you have?  Thank you!

This video alone made me subscribe. I too want to build an army. I have the technology but I do not have the software. I’m clueless

Dude, this is SO cool. That's all.

can the cycloidal one be shrunk and be strong enough?

Skynet lol

exactly 8 minutes. lol!

This is an awesome project - my dream would be a colab with you and James Bruton(opendog)

You need flexible build plate for your printer. You are wrecking your printer the way you take the parts of....

Would this brushless motor be able to be used with the inversed gear setup to create a low torque wind generator?

excellent job !

lmfao the shitty flute music

This is all the research and explanation a non-electronics person like me needed to hear. Subscribed.

What model Creality 3D printer is that?

I wonder if you could package the planetary reduction in the center of the pancake motor to cut down on size…

Hi there. First of all I am a huge fan of this project.  I have a question. You said in the video that the odrive S1 has an onboard Encoder. Does  that mean I have to place the encoder magnet right above the exact spot on the odrive? I am a little confused, because documentation covers that quite little. Where can I find more about this?  I am experimenting right now on an odrive v3.6 and an Eagle Power KV90 BLDC and i am wondering if it is worth it to change to odrive S1, so this video and your website are helping me a lot. Thanks

Great video. Try printing on a PEI sheet, the parts release so nicely.

This is a really well done project, and an amazingly well done video. You are a natural at presenting your material with a touch of humor and a ton of knowledge - well done indeed!

Wow, this is great content - interesting, well-produced and informative. Subbed!

Is it possible to make such actuator smaller? What type of motor and controller will be needed to do such? Possibly some small motor and controller from DIY brushless camera stabilizators?

Excellent video

not sure, never tried it

Creality Cp-01

Thank you. It appears heavier built then the newer models.

You can’t do that with these motors since there’s bearings in the middle, but if you create your own custom actuator this is possible. It’s exactly what was done on the MIT Cheetah robot. I’m currently in the process of building an actuator like this.

Yeah I was thinking something like the cheetah actuator would be awesome to make open source. There are off the shelf planetary options that may package well in the center. Max planetary stages from Rev could work well imo.

I wonder if you could harvest the coils from an existing bldc? That could make it a lot easier and less prohibitive to make DIY.

@luciengenova8688  I've found that it is impractical to harvest anything from an existing BLDC. You would have to buy the entire BLDC for just that one part. The stator is glued to the metal frame anyways so I couldnt remove it if I wanted to. For this upcoming actuator I'm using an off the shelf stator and a cycloidal gearbox in the center rather than planetary. This will be my next video. Stay tuned!

Yes it has to be placed right above the exact point. Check the ODrive documentation for more info.

@aaedmusa  somehow I missed it in the documentation. But now I understood it, thank you very much

Yes, it is! If you make custom motors instead of using existing brushless motors then you can greatly reduce size. As you suggested, gimbal motors could work but they would not nearly be as strong.

Thank you for answer! So probably some motor rewinding will be needed Do you maybe have idea if there is cheaper controller that could be used with smaller motors to make it more budget friendly?

@bartoszgaj7788  The only one that comes to mind is Simple FOC. I have never used it though.

I have a project I have been working on for a while and could really use your help. It's mostly about lighting automation for the movie industry. If you would be at all interested in having a convo I would love to chat sometime. this is the closest I have come to a solution for what I am building.

So inspirational

Loved the video the fundamentals you covered really gave a lot of information about motors thanks a lot

At 3:01 and 5:32 how were u able to achieve that spring like reaction with the motor

Bro I really love our Vid ❤ And that it is open source

Really impressive. Video is super clear. Looking at the rest of the project looks like a really solid design that can be adapted to other projects. Thanks for sharing. You already have me pricing out those motors online

do you think you could scale this up and make something like the old robot dog - That would be pretty cool though I don't think the o drive works at the level

Best video I’ve found so far on such motors! Thank you 🎉

You should try a radial vector reducer gearbox; i.e., RV reducer gear.

waiting for the table to brake

Great video man I'm a fan of ur work. Is there a way I can access your design for the actuator. I'm starting out learning robotics and I want to do a project that'll require sth similar

beating directly on the bearing with hammer should be punishable by death, but other than that, perfect video...

love this! Thank you

Epic. Thank you for sharing the how to and open source license

I see you have the glass bed with clips. I find if you remove the bed, then pull off the print, it doesn't mess up the leveling from print to print.

Great video, love to see more like this

the whole video was fantastic but the flute in the intro was pure gold!

Lithium grease is for high temperatures, it can soften pla and dissolve plastics over time, i figure silicone grease is cool for pla. awesome info i hadn't seen that thanks.

please bro make a tutorial about torque in brushless motors! youre so good at it!

Dude you're really killing it both from a design and engineering perspective, as well as from a content perspective. I'm loving these videos🤜

Look at my newest video. I made a robot dog with 12 of these actuators.

@aaedmusa  yeah I saw, pretty cool but I was thinking of like a the bigdog Boston dynamics made a while ago

@StoiresbyAI  there’s really no benefit to making a really big robot dog. Too much weight and more strain on the actuators. Boston dynamics made SPOT much smaller than bigdog for a reason.

links are in the description

@aaedmusa  ok thanks. Also is it possible to use a 2400kv brushless motor to do sth like this

@chibuezendiokwelu63  You would have a lot less torque and you would have to redesign the gearbox. Assuming that your motor is a different size than mine.

Appreciate it!

Really nice result : )

Amazing!  Thank you for sharing. <3

I just rewatched this. Still solid👍

Awesome job

This is so cool

damn very nice

Why not use axial motors?

Using a planetary gear system to run a planetary gear system is really funny. 😂😂😂😂😂 The Drill!😂😂😂😂😂

Man what a great video. Also thanks for sharing your work.

nice but it is very noisy

For the love of your printer take the build plate off the machine before you de-part the build plate if you are going to use that much force on it! watching that part montage was like a news reel of warcrimes to a 3D printer.

Super cool project! Great presentation as well, keep at it!. Extremely impressive! Can't wait to see this come together!.

Amazing! Come and see our acuator!

Why are you using the arduino IDE for programing?

What music meme on 0:09 ?

i was here before bro got 10m subs !

walking horse

Your build sheet specifies adding an encoder magnet, what are you using to "read" the magnet?

Helpfully this becomes the beginning of an opensource full robot

nice. dont you just hate the word "torque"? they should have made a better word. it comes from an even worse word from latin, that means to twist.

I went with what I am familiar with, what has high torque, and what I could get off the shelf. What's the benefit of axial motors over brushless?

@aaedmusa  it was supposed to be axial flux motor. I have been researching and see they have hi torque and being used in electric cars and planes.

@rgsattphone Interesting. From what I've seen you can't buy those off the shelf, you have to build them (powerful ones at least). However, axial motors do seem like a cool project on its own. I just wouldn't use them to build actuators that I plan on building robots with.

Sorry nerd joke.

Nah

What should I use instead?

@aaedmusa  because anything arduino is non-ITL, so just No! lol

The odrive has an onboard encoder

@aaedmusa  ohh, perhaps I should have done a bit more research before I bought everything. Only realizing that now as I’m trying to configure the o drive. I’ll be modifying and adding to the project, I’ll keep you updated.

its always just a few more test prints.

holy moly! you are smart!

very instruction, good video

I'll be joining the boilermaker crew as an engineering student in the fall! This is crazy awesome, cant wait to see it being implemented in some robot designs. I hope one day my videos can be as impressive and entertaining as yours!

Great engineering and video presentation. I enjoyed every one of your videos. Keep it coming!

make pc steering wheel of it! :D wonder how force feedback will work!

Bannana breav

Earned my sub. Can't wait to watch your channel grow. Keep up the good work.

It’s cool to be be in the under 10k sub club. I know this guy is going to a million

Your channel is amazing. You will be huge!!!

Best intro ever!

Salam , Mr.Aaed  What's your laptop model?

I want to learn this subject (3d modeling, designing, and electrical circuit board builting) what is the name of this field or subject Or from where i can start learning properly

what is your major and degree in college pls tell me!  I'm super impressed btw

I loved everything in this project, my friend! Even the sarcasm in between!

THE CONTENT THAT YOU MAKE IS AMAZING i thought you'd have millions of subsribers tbh ☠

👍👍

Pounds? What's that? Why do they still insist on using outdated measurements instead of adopting the universally accepted metric system? The international scientific community has embraced the metric system for its precision, simplicity, and ease of conversion. Transitioning to the metric system would not only promote global consistency but also facilitate cross-border collaboration, facilitate trade, and enhance scientific communication. It's time to leave behind archaic measurement units and embrace a standardized system that promotes accuracy and efficiency on a global scale. ps: Liked and subscribed.

its sad your so good but you have 6.6k subs

Maybe you could try building a high precision actuator with a rotary encoder, and then measure the backlash.

You are right, buttttt as long as I'm working on personal projects I see no harm in using two-unit systems. It only matters in industry.

3:46 I see you got some good music taste there😉Awesome video man you got a well earned sub

Excellent - do you plan to measure the output angle?

may i ask what field are you studying/majoring ( would like to say thanks for the beautiful content keep it up)

I just found this channel while scrolling my recommended section, and I wish I found this channel sooner. I love this type of content.

Hey, I'm almost done printing all the parts and I ordered everything I need. I was wondering, is there any particular reason you didn't use a BLDC motor from ODRIVE?

Awesome video  little advice herringbone gears may be a better idea than helical to keep from exerting a perpendicular force on the gears.  Please educate me if I’m wrong!

Wow, your skill, knowledge and presentation exceeds your subscriber count. I look forward to see what else you do

not to be that guy.  Torque density is proportional to air gap surface area.  more air gap (the distance between stator and rotor) is usually inversely proportional to torque.  Flatter motors don't always mean more torque, the further the air gap is to the center of rotation usually means more torque. Still, good work on the video!

Printed plastic gears, really? How long will it last? How much clearance does it have?

love Tyler the creator playing in the background

Thank you for having a native English speaker. It's a pleasure to listen to your videos.

Glad that the algorithm showed me your channel, very nice and quality videos, looking forward to the next one!

THANK you so much for making this, I've had a project on hold waiting for just something like this! I want to make a gang of these to pull and feed out cables in a cable operated robotic mechanism. Excellent work! I'd love to see you make a bipedal robot, use the technique of simulating the actuators in a game engine like unity, and train the control AI in a game engine on a desktop PC. (That is the part I'm focusing on, how to simulate cable mechanisms in a game engine, and use that to train a control AI)

Nice project! ❤

I'm a young student moving on to post secondary study soon and I am grateful that you were able to share this video! I am working on some of my own robotic projects and I have always had a hard time finding ways to control brushless motors and so I have stuck to brushed to simplify things for myself. After watching this you have taught me enough to inspire me to go back and learn more about his brushless motor control! I appreciate this and you definitely got a sub from me!

This is awesome

Really good taste in the soldering iron. The only thing that could make it better, is if it was made in the U.S instead of China.

Cool video shot, keep it up, thank you for sharing :)

This is so wonderful! Thank you for this

Does anyone know what controller is used at 1:15 ?

The motor controller already measures the output angle.

@aaedmusa  Sorry I meant the output of the gearbox.  :)

@nylesnettleton88  With the motor controller I can still measure the relative position of the output shaft, juts not the absolute position.

mechanical engineering

Too expensive and low torque densities.

@aaedmusa  thanks for the quick reply. I figured. Have you done any torture tests to see how well the PLA holds up? I printed mine in PETG.

@TheAdventureLog  No I haven’t done stress tests yet. I also haven’t printed around with PETG but I’m pretty sure it should be stronger than PLA. You can always print at 100% infill if you are worried about failure.

That's true, but it's impossible to use herringbone gears with a planetary gear drive because you cannot push the planet gears in due to the two different profiles.

Also, sorry commenting as I watch.  (I love the content don’t take any of this as criticism i could be wrong) when you are fitting your gears into 3D printed parts it may seriously impact your gear efficiency to hammer with uneven pressure. Ideally you would press fit them in with a flat headed vice. In my experience this should extend the lifespan of your parts as well as improve efficiency.

@aaedmusa ahhh I see!

Also that controller that you used instead of an esc is so cool, I had no idea brushless motors could be controlled like that.  Really blew my mind

How did I miss that? I meant to say gap radius rather than air gap. Thanks for the correction, I'll be sure to keep it in mind in the future.

It’s a RioRand BLDC controller

@aaedmusa  Awesome, thank you so much. Great video too

1. A robot that goes to the store, picks up the products, pays, and comes back to you. 😃 2. Use large language models [llama, chatgpt] as modules of different parts of the architecture. Tasks on the higher level, implementing them a bit lower etc. This would be my way to go about it, but I don't have the robot 🙂

I might use this idea for my sim racing Force feedback  steering

Hey Brother, This is great.🎉🎉🎉 For peoject, you should come up with a extensible quadruped robot,  With ability to run with help of ROS

Also, subbed + bell :)

How are you NOT using the LTT screwdriver????

Something like this would make and great motor for a Force Feed Back yoke

Brushless high torque motors, advanced motor controllers and complex control software...  And then make it mediocre by using 3d printed gears. No. That's a waste of time. Do it properly when you get that far into it.

Subscribed and upvoted for open source, thanks a lot, solid work! I'd love to see a legged robot with an arm on top... Many potential applications, but I'm curious what mechanical considerations there are for this and choosing degrees of freedom and size if wanting to touch the ground

Cool

The year is the 3d printed cars, planes,  boats, females.... and pets.. 3d print pets.

This is amazing, Have you seen the inmoov project ?

Can they be used in Avionics. To minimize weight due to hydraulics fluids

Why do you treat your stuff with so much disrespect?

Build a child robot and put a fleshlight where the mouth should be.

nice your video really is inspiring

Make something different come with your idea. This called inventing

From the thumbnail, at first, I thought this was a 3-D printed set of dumbbells. And I was wondering how the hell you would get that to work. Wondering if you fill it up with water or rocks or something. Got I’m an idiot sometimes… Lol.

They dont use planetary gearing, they use cycloidal drive, would love to see your take at those.

Thanks! Also, having the clamps on one side made my eye twitch. Those tests aren't providing enough data about the motor without a stationary point. Make your base wider, Flip the clamps 90 and add a few milimeters between,  then reposition the camera. Anyways, I'll be using this within my engineering courses this fall. Thanks again for all you do! Would you be interested in meeting virtually with my students, this fall?

Very cool. I have found that inexpensive force gauges from amazon are pretty good and useful for measuring things like this, they come with different attachments and mounting options, some of them have serial ports for data logging.

Hook it up with ROS or ROS2 so I believe others can contribute or there are functionalities already implemented 😊

No, I have not, I'll check it out!

Subscribed! You're such a treasure to the 3D printing community! Keep it up ^^

Hammering rolling bearings with a hammer is already too abnormal.

Darn what you paying for the 3D software.  Autodesk Inventor Pro 2023. Like 3k pa.  Nice work btw

Neat! What type of plastic are you using to print the parts?

Great performance for sure. It appear to me that a more versatile walking robot should be built with 4 motorized wheels as feet. This way the robot becomes much more efficient as it can walk and or roll.

Would it be possible to make it slimmer by adding more gears instead of 3?

What an underrated channel - great work!

Awesome video and explanation.  I’m going to your website and looking at more!

BRO WHAT ONLY 3K SUBS?? YOU DESEVE WAY MORE

The torque is proportional to the area of the stator, not diameter. The flat ones are proffered due to the surface area which provides cooling.

Your one inch thick table:  :O

Eager to see where this is going. Not to be a downer but many have tried and failed at making and especially programing such a robot. Very curious to see how you fair 😏

Nice work bro

Super well done! Looks better than openTorque!  The only question remaining is: how durable is it? I'd be curious to see a wear test 🙂

A really awesome and amazing video! Great ingenuity and craftmansship. I've seen many, MANY videos on harmonic drives and planetary gearboxes, this is really an outstanding video. Of course I hit the like button and immediately subscribed.

Thought you made a 3D printed car alternator at first from looking at the thumbnail lol

Using it as a clutch mechanizm/drive unit for a tracked vehicle would be sick!

can't wait to see what you do with it

A minute into the video i then had to SUBSCRIBE to this channel. Like the naraation, background mus8c and a bit of funny scenes.

It appears that the algorithm is blessing us all with your fabulous content! I’m very excited to see the continuation of this project. It is beautiful work, and presented wonderfully. Subbed immediately.

That would not make it slimmer but I am going to work on ways to reduce thickness in the future.

man that's awesome!!

isnt that just a motor?

Which machine are you using for printing

Very cool, I'll have to try building one of these myself!  Can't wait to see a robot using these in the future.

100% 3D printed.  Except, you know, the parts that aren't. I mean it's a cool video and project but please, we don't need more clickbait!

Do you plan on continuing to use 3d printed gears or will you switch to aluminum or similar metal gears that you machine / order?

Waiting for Skyentific to comment.

I noticed one thing wrong with your 3D printer you may want to consider fixing. Your bed looks loose from the clip at 2:03 underneath the bed there should be eccentric nuts, tighten them until it doesn't wobble. Look up a video on how to tighten it for further instructions.

Hey i have a e3 s1 and an e5s1 i am trying to sell cheap if your interested..they both have less than 100 hours on them and lots of extras

Your Detailed explanations are great.   How much power does it take to hold 5 lbs on the lever?   Nobody talks about this and we need to know!

awesome! thanks for making it open source!!

Please use the Metric System. Only three countries in the world (out of more than 200 countries) use the imperial system.  Only three countries resist using the system that the whole world uses.

Think you're table will break before the equipment.. x)

Awesome video, great project, and I especially enjoyed the great editing with all the music and sound effects! Instant sub and waiting for more (after I've watched all of your previous videos).

Great work and thanks for sharing

Enjoyed the video, but I think I found a flaw in your logic about robot domination. If the actuators are compliant, then the robot will be compliant and therefore no desire to take over the world  I'll get me coat

Fantastic video. Subscribed

watching you hammer bearings gives me anxiety lol. use a socket to make sure you don't hit the inner race

So well presented, explained and executed. With humour too. In a tech channel. I subbed...😊

Awesome job dude, just think how nice this will be if It was printed from a high quality UPAHT-CF15 or a PA11-CF instead of PLA, even ABS-CF would be a nice choice.

*Fancy motor*

Creality CP-01

Hey let's colab, you can make a good robot desgin, I can create good AI so together we can make a physical AI robot assistent

Build a mini Metal Gear Rex

Spider bot for all terrain autonomous

a kangaroo/rabbit robot would be sick

Those poor bearings get damaged by a Hammer  😢

You forgot the Potentiometer in the Beginning as you showed the disassembled RC Servo

I think it would be really neat to have a pentapod style walking robot.  Not practical by any means, but it would be cool.

fastest click on subscribe ever. I'm quite curious to see what you will do next.

Would be even better if the motor itself was printed from ferromagnetic plastic, copper wiring and neodymium magnets. There have been very successful attempts at in on YT so why not?

inspiring, thanks for sharing this with us

Love the sound design as well! ❤

Awesome video. Love your style. And whats in it to. 😂😊 Subbed!

Great design! One think I don't like is use of helical teeth profile as these create an axial force while in use and in current design it can increase wear and lower the efficiency. Would it be possible to use herringbone gears in your design? Either solid or 2 part ones

this is awesome man! but this bed adehision is incredible. I just wanted to give you an advice about that, if you just hit the bed where it is, you are gonna destroy your bed level and also in the long run you can ruin the printer itself. with my cr-10 when it is really stuck there i remove the bed and i place it on a desk to scrape or bang it off.  if you want to just pop the things of the printer it is really nice to have a glass or mirror bed with some hair spray on it or you can just higher up the Z-offset. i hope you find that helpful ;)

Aaed, greetings from Norway! I need to apoligise to you for not having found you sooner. Absolutely awesome channel!

Please don't hammer bearings into place.  If you must,  at least find a short piece of metal tube the same size as the outer race and tappy-tap on that.   Squeezing them in a vice would be better (with the ring to ensure all pressure is on the outer race)  if you don't have any other kind of press.   If you can't find or make an appropriate tube,  maybe you could print something.

Good job, but please measure everything on a way stiffer table as these measurements are currently way off!

Nice channel!

"100% 3D printed". How did you print the screws and nuts?

This was a fun watch! I learned things, saw some really cool tech and now I feel inspired to work on some projects I’ve been procrastinating on.

Does this mean there is going to be a V4 quadrupedal with compliance motors? That would be so cool

Would it be possible to increase the gear ratio to get sub 1mm high torque precision from this type of home made actuator ?

For Science?? ;-)

Multiaxis Robot arm would be nice. Everytime I see DIY robot arms they are weak and are not really useable

So nice. Lovely 😍

Excellent!

great video!

Super cool project! Great presentation as well, keep at it!

Nice to see updates !

Get Danco silicon grease rather than white lithium grease...it is thicker, and won't attract dust Pretty darn cool though! Keep em coming!!!!

if you continue like this, i see no reason why you shouldnt succeed, really entertaining video! Nice explanations :) Keep on going, good work. Greetings from Luxembourg

I love Joaquin robots too

Bet you could replace a garage door motor with it using the correct reduction

Dude I love your editing, great video!

new sub here, great video. I'm very interested in building one, and hardening it for use in the elements. I'll let you know how that goes!

Instantly subscribed

Awesome content man! Looking forward to your next iteration of robot quadruped using this drive! Side question, would you continue making content for your channel after graduating?

Extremely impressive! Can't wait to see this come together!

you went with an expensive motor, gave up on the cycloidal gearbox, and just used an Odrive, which makes this project equivalent to James Bruton's design (or worse, since he at least used a cool gearbox

Very cool project and well done video! A sub from me. How about a walking robot that uses scissors (good excuse for an other set of actuators) to mow the lawn or do other gardening work? Just for the absurdity of it. But whatever walking bot you are going to make, I'll be looking forward to the videos.

Yes, but it would have to be a 2 stage planetary gear set. The sun gear is currently 8 teeth which are as small as I would want to go. But also I don't really need more torque for what I plan on using it for.

@aaedmusa  thanks for the reply. I build flight simulators with flight controls that need to be manipulated to allow the autopilot to fly the aircraft. They also need a type of spring feel to them. The actuators we currently use are 10’s of thousands of dollars and have the exact same functionality as this actuator. This could be a suitable alternative. Thanks for the video.

Thanks!

Interesting idea. Noted!

Nice work, the design looks nice.

:face-red-droopy-eyes: Coding is the hard part...

Very well done.

Awesome! I just finished making a cycloidal drive actuator! I am using nema 17, but i love the idea of using BLDC, with my terribly inefficient nema 17s, <0.1Nm, I’m getting 2Nm of torque   Would love to see more from you! Great production btw

You deserve more subscribers

What 3d printer do you use?

Amazing, clear description of brushless motors and how to control them.  Such solid video.  I look forward to seeing your creations step forward.

Nice job, YouTube algo! Subscribed!

Just being nitpicky but on the website this line should read "A brushless motor with a small air gap to maximize torque density."

So how does it compare to standard rc driving servo? How much weight can the servo hold? Do you need an odrive controller for every actuator? Great video, looking at the dingo robot and they used coreless servos. I think that is just because they are cheaper but still accurate.

Great video. I would suggest you use a vice for press fitting things rather than a hammer, a vice let’s things go in straighter without any impacts. I would also suggest using nylon for the gears if you are able to print it.  Edit: you should also stop mixing units, you measured the arm length in inches and then calculated torque in Nm. NASA made a mistake once due to mixing units and ended up destroying a probe.

If this were to be used in a force feedback joystick build, is there a cheaper controller board that would provide the same level of control over the motor?  With 2 axis, it would need two of these boards, unless one board can handle multiple motors. Any interest in designing and implementing a force feedback joystick?

good stuff.. i feel like this could be used for a diy sim force feedback wheel..

Camera crane...

Have you tried vesc for foc? Might be worth trying if you haven't

A.I and Robots to wipe out humans

Nice video mate. Pls make an RC walking trebuchet

Pls dont hammer the bearings mate.

"a few more test prints" 😂 yeah. I feel this

i think going from a 3d printed actuator to a entire walking robot is a big step and would take a really long time maybe make one leg and then for the next video make a whole robot?

Thanks! BLDC motors are great, but I feel like you should be able to get a lot more torque than that with a Nema 17.

@aaedmusa  yes, I am a little noob on the electronics, just getting comfortable so, i was not gonna get into position control and all 😅  But yes, I will get into BLDCs

Actually, the air gap of a brushless motor is directly proportional to its torque density so it should be "a large air gap".

The main difference (apart from size) is compliance. Servos have no torque control. And yes you need an ODrive with each actuator. I saw the Dingo robot too, its very well made.

Yep, unfortunately, I don't own a vice. I have never tried nylon but that's definitely something to look into.

I believe there are some like the Moteus controller although I don't know how it compares to ODrive.  This controller is only single axis. Hadn't thought about a force feedback joystick, might just look into it.

I was thinking the exact same thing, 16 nm would be plenty enough!

very good thinking, shouldnt be too expensive either

Interesting, never heard of it. What makes it different from a standard FOC controller?

Interesting idea. noted.

I probably shouldnt, but I don't have the right tools to do otherwise. If it works it works 🤷‍♂

Yep thats the plan

Pretty cool! How much backlash does it have ?

When I got halfway through and I'm like this guy deserves a sub, I'm shocked by how few subs for the quality. Great job

Hi, could you make the video more exciting with some animations ,cool cuts ,loud music and things ,i'd love it even more

This is awesome

was fully expecting this channel to have like 100k subscribers when i looked at the channel, this is a very well made video and a very good actuator design.

Cool video, thank you for sharing!

Awesome.

Pretty production, keep going man, i know how much work you have put into it.

When an Electrical Engineer builds mechanical things:  Bearings:😳 Hammer:😉

Subscribed

I've been using a premium lithium complex grease with moly in my pla gearsets, I would be interested in your thoughts on pla lubrication in general.

I see that you have odrive boards already in stock so this may not be interresting but there are a few fully open controller boards around like the mjbots moteus. Could be handy if you ever want to make custom PCBs that include build-specific components.

Damn solid work! Thank you for sharing, both this video and the source. 💪

3:47 music taste is immaculate

Nice video, great explanation. Liked and subscribed.

I think your subscriber count is going to increase rapidly. Great content

Wow, awesome project and great video! You did a great job explaining everything. Looking forward to the next video!

good job, can't wait to see the walking robot.

I am glad I stumbled on to this channel. cant wait to see more

I used one of your SEA actuators to compare with an actuator i designed for my final year project in college

Thanks! Backlash is 0.15mm

Working on my editing skills 😅 better videos to come!

@aaedmusa  awesome 😎 keep it up Sir

I’ve thought about this alot. I guess the right way to go about it would be to use a vice but I don’t own one. If it works it works 🤷‍♂️

Welcome to the cult

I've only ever used white lithium grease. It works well for me and I've read that it's pretty good for PLA. I've also seen people use silicon grease for PLA.

Thanks I'll check it out!

Let's hope!

Thanks!

Glad to have you!

Nice! Hope that worked well for you. This one is definitely much better made.

@aaedmusa  yup it did! Yes great actuator, if you ar einterested my actuator is a modified servo that can  act like those quasi drive ones even compliancy and springiness

@ironman5034  interesting, do you have your work posted somewhere ?

@aaedmusa  not yet where do you suggest

@ironman5034  Hackaday

Thanks for providing the shopping list on the site.  Would you say that brushless motor wouldn't server the same function for a robot arm or would that a difference in configuration with the odrive?

Very detail explanation. Hope for more contents like this❤

Wow, excellent project and awesome video! Great editing and videography, impressively artful editing, and well thought out explanation of enough of the basics to explain your design decisions. Love it, excited to see what you build with it, and if I can finish some of my current projects I'm going to build one!

A robot dog that can pick up after your dog does its duty on the sidewalk... genius🤣

Good job :)

Amazing!!

Wow, that's pretty neat! If you make a video on a walking robot, I can't wait to see it. Your website is pretty dope to get more info and the design from. Top notch creater that deserves more attention. I've heard of those brushless drone motor catching fire becasue usually they are meant to have air blowing constantly through it, but it can be managed hopefully. Cheers!

Awesome design, impressive performance!

I'm not sure if I follow, could you clarify the question?

@aaedmusa  since your goal is to make these actuators springy, I was curious as to whether it excludes them from working as robot arm actuators.

@gerarddantel5931  You can make them springy or really stiff meaning that they can be used in a robot arm and other applications.

@aaedmusa  thanks so much for confirming!

Thanks! Definitely planning on a couple robots with this one. Totally check out the website if you plan on building one.

You need a Nobel prize for this 🤣

@aaedmusa  ⚠️ God has said in the Quran:  🔵 { O mankind, worship your Lord, who created you and those before you, that you may become righteous - ( 2:21 )   🔴 [He] who made for you the earth a bed [spread out] and the sky a ceiling and sent down from the sky, rain and brought forth thereby fruits as provision for you. So do not attribute to Allah equals while you know [that there is nothing similar to Him]. ( 2:22 )  🔵 And if you are in doubt about what We have sent down upon Our Servant [Muhammad], then produce a surah the like thereof and call upon your witnesses other than Allah, if you should be truthful. ( 2:23 )  🔴 But if you do not - and you will never be able to - then fear the Fire, whose fuel is men and stones, prepared for the disbelievers.( 2:24 )  🔵 And give good tidings to those who believe and do righteous deeds that they will have gardens [in Paradise] beneath which rivers flow. Whenever they are provided with a provision of fruit therefrom, they will say, "This is what we were provided with before." And it is given to them in likeness. And they will have therein purified spouses, and they will abide therein eternally. ( 2:25 )  ⚠️ Quran

​ @1islam1 stop shitting with God shit dude.

​ @1islam1 shut up

@aaedmusa  Hook it up with ROS or ROS2 so I believe others can contribute or there are functionalities already implemented 😊

@1islam1 no one asked for your fucking lecture here. Get lost

Thanks! Hopefully, that won't be an issue with the current and velocity limits but putting a small fan on the inside could be a potential upgrade in a future iteration.

James Bruton on here has made many walking robots check him out

@aaedmusa  With those vents I can see using a small temperature sensor and one of those super small aliexpress 12v pc fans to actively cool it if it starts to overheat.  Also, production value is 🤌keep it up!

@andycrask3531  Yes, it's a great channel. I've been subbed to him for a few years. I like this actuator better than the cycloidal drive actuator that James Bruton build for his walking dog because it's much smaller with the motor assembly and everything as well as having fewer barrings which can jack up the cost a lot very quickly.

@andycrask3531  I love his videos. I took a lot of inspiration from his cycloidal actuator design in opendog v3.

@FasutonemuMyoji  Great idea. Something to implement in a second version0. Thanks!

