PS_p3O9q4YI
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PS_p3O9q4YI
Unknown Category
Музыка Музыка Welcome! Today we start the design of a Class AB discrete power amplifier for audio purposes. As promised in the previous video, which I posted as a demo, we'll be able to design a 25W power amplifier that we can use for, as earlier mentioned, for audio purposes. And, you know, for exploring discrete power transistors and small signals transistors used in audio applications. As you can see on the screen, this is the Class AB audio amplifier that we'll be designing in the next two or three videos. Today we should be able to basically spec out our specification of what this amplifier is going to achieve. And, at least, come up with some values for, say, for the power supply and some of the output transistors that we need in order to achieve or design this amplifier completely. So, before we get started, like I started at the beginning of the video with a preview of the sound that you can expect from such an amplifier, let's give you another demo, and from there we'll proceed to get the specifications for this power amplifier. So, let's play another demo just to show you the capability of this discrete power amplifier. Okay. Of course, this camera, this cheap camera that I'm using is not going to reproduce the full scale of sounds that is produced by my speakers. So, I mean, in real life, this is going to sound much better. But, regardless, this is just to give you a demo and as well as a motivation to stick with this video because we're going to go into a lot of details and calculating all the values of each component shown on this circuit here and why each component is chosen based on its characteristics and the function of each device. So, since we're going to do that, this video will give you just a motivation to stick with the video and learn basically the material that I'll be presenting. So, let's go ahead and give a small demo again just to give you an idea of how well this amplifier performs. And, of course, we'll be doing once we go through the tutorial, we'll do a testing of the performance and characteristic of this amplifier, including the distortion performance, power handling capability, and, you know, frequency response. So, but for now, I think listening test will basically give us an idea how well this performs. And, of course, you can see that I have laid it out in this sort of this breadboard here. So, and, you know, as you can see, you know, as you might be aware, they're not the best for if you're going to achieve low noise circuits. So, this will, you know, whatever you hear, if we laid out in a PCB, we'll be able to achieve much better performance out of it in terms of the quality of the sound. So, but regardless, even, you know, the way it's shown, you know, the way it's constructed, this is quite capable amplifier. So, let's give a listen. Okay, here we go. So, let's go ahead and do this. And get the specifications for this power amplifier. To start it, let's talk about the power, because that's one of the most important functions of any power amplifier is actually to get the small signal that we receive at the inputs. And from a, say, for example, from a pre-amplifier, and then basically get a power gain and feed a very low impedance load. So, since that's one of the main functions of a power amplifier, the power that I chose for this amplifier is 25 watts. Reason is, for personal use and in home applications, you're not going to need more than 25 watts. Basically, that's ample enough power. And if you have decent speakers, which are efficient, delivering 25 watts to them, they should be able to convert that to a very impressive sound. And, like I said, in home environment. So, that's why I chose 25 watts. And the power amplifier should also handle very low impedance load. For example, for this application, I have chosen it to handle at least 4 ohms. Minimum 4 ohms. It should be able to handle 8 ohms speakers as well. But 4 ohms is the load that we should be able to handle. The THD for this amplifier, of course, is an important specification as well. It needs to be less than 0.1% at full power output. And at 20 kHz. And as we'll talk about why this specification is necessary, why I'm putting the frequency. But, basically, the total harmonic distortion of this power amplifier should be less than or equal to 0.1% at full load output power. And, you know, we could go, you know, play around with the amplifier to actually reduce this to much lower levels. But 0.1% should be enough for the purposes of this video. And we should achieve, we should be able to achieve this and work towards to make this amplifier have that much distortion at the full output power at 20 kHz. Next is the, another important specification that we need to cover is the frequency response. The frequency response of this amplifier should be from 20 to 20 kHz. This is normal for audio purposes because our hearing, human hearing, is in this range. So, we should be able to basically have a flat response in terms of the gain and power delivery to our speaker. This is frequency. This is the amplitude. Say, the amplitude of the voltage we deliver to the load. Or, I can also say the power. I could just plot it in power. We should be able to get a flat response all the way from 20 Hz to 20 kHz. Okay? So, if we choose the components into the class AV amplifier that we'll design properly, we should be able to achieve this specification as well. So, these are the main important specifications that we need to adhere to basically design this power amplifier. So, let's go ahead and get started figuring out some of the things we need to achieve this specification. One of them is the power supply requirement. So, in order to deliver 25 watts to a 4 ohm load, we're going to need a specific power supply. And we can get that by just doing a simple calculation. So, the power delivered, and remember, this power is average power. We're not talking about the peak power rubbish that a lot of manufacturers put on their amplifiers. We're talking about average power delivered to the load. So, the average power given to a load is given by the formula, the RMS voltage squared divided by the load impedance, right? So, in this case, 4 ohms. The reason why we'll take 4 ohms in this calculation will be apparent in a second. So, if we rearrange this equation, all we're going to get is the RMS voltage, and this should be the minimum RMS voltage that we need in order to achieve the 25 watt output, is going to be the root square of the average power multiplied by the load impedance, right? So, if we go ahead and calculate that, we're going to get, so basically this is 25 multiplied by, so 25 multiplied by 4, and the answer is 10 volts RMS. So, why did I choose 4 ohms? So, typically in a speaker, we'll have, basically its dominant characteristics is the resistance of the voice coil, although at higher frequencies, the impedance does go high because of the inductance of the speaker coils, or the voice coil, but the minimum impedance that we can expect from a single speaker, you know, from one speaker, would be, so for example, if I was to look at this speaker here, for example, the minimum impedance that I expect to see at the terminals of the speaker, is the DC resistance of the speaker. So, if this speaker, if we go ahead and measure with our multimeter here set into ohms, basically we'll get the lowest case impedance that this speaker will present to the power amplifier. So, basically that's why I chose 4 ohms, and the speakers I have, which I showed you at the beginning of the video, I have, basically the, the, the, the, subwoofer, speakers are 4 ohms, they have an actual 4 ohms, DC resistance, but, you should, I should be careful in case of my speakers, because it's a three-way speaker, so it has a crossover network, so the, the two other speakers, the midrange and the tweeter, will also be in parallel with it, so they, that, you know, the, the, using multimeter to actually measure the DC resistance, in that case, is not really advisable, if you're, so basically, the 4 ohms is only for a single speaker like this, basically. So, that's why I chose 4 ohms here. So, another thing that we can go ahead and figure out, is also the, peak voltage amplitude that we need, from this, so the, the peak, of this is, if, basically we're using a, sine wave, in this case, so if we do that, then it's basically going to be, uh, 10, multiplied by the square root of 2, so that is going to be around 14.14 volts, peak, right, uh, and, that's something we can use, but remember, uh, we'll have some, uh, losses at the output of the, uh, the, you know, the power devices, so the power devices here, will have some losses, right, because, uh, we'll be using a Darlander now, output, uh, this transistor will never saturate, uh, so there will be quite a bit of, uh, voltage drop here, when the, at the peak of the, positive or, on the negative of the, output of the, uh, signal, and also the, since the emitted degeneration resistor, we're using, 0.22 ohms, will also have a loss there, and remember, since this stage, we'll be driving this stage, this is just only a power gain, uh, so this stage, since this stage is, you know, this is a common emitter output, the, uh, voltage will follow, this voltage will follow, this voltage, but remember, we have two diode, two diode drops here as well, so we'll have considerable amount of drop, so, our DC rail, this DC rail, and this DC rail, we have to make sure that, we account those losses, in order to, if we are to deliver 25 watts, so, what I'll do is, I, I'm going to be generous, and assume that, the, losses across those output devices, plus the emitted degeneration resistor, uh, is going to be around 4 volts, so I'm just going to add 4 volts to this, so, the, plus, or minus, DC volts, that we'll use, for our rails, will be 18 volts, okay, so, that's what we'll have, so, plus, or minus 18 volts, is our DC rail, okay, next is, uh, we can figure out, what the maximum dissipation, is, uh, going to be across our load, during the entire wave, so, for example, if we put a test signal here, like a sine wave, and, we test the power capability of this, this amplifier, we're going to find that, during this time, during this whole, period, basically, you know, this, this is going to be somewhere around, like I said, you know, you know, 14 volts, let's say, 14 volts, assuming there will be a few losses here, we're using 18, and minus 18 volts here, so, during this, the, these power devices, will dissipate certain amount of power, right, so, what is the maximum power, that we need to make sure, in order to choose the right devices, right, so, to do that, it's, uh, very easy to show, that the, maximum power dissipated, across, such devices, you know, across such an individual device, per, half of the sine wave, is given by, this formula here, P dissipation maximum, across those output devices, during, half of the sine wave, so, for the positive peak, and for the negative peak of, you know, during that entire, uh, period, basically, is given by, the, formula again, and we're going to take the peak voltage, and square it, and then of course, this would be the maximum, right, remember, so, actually, I should specify, that this is, V peak, max, right, so, basically, it's that, divided by, pi square, multiplied by, the load resistance, and remember, uh, it's very easy, to show this formula, if you want, uh, I can, show you, in the next video, if you feel like it, you can leave it, in the comments, but it's very easy, to derive this formula, uh, why that's the case, you know, the, the maximum power dissipation, across those devices, so, if we do that, uh, we'll, you know, plug all the values in here, we plug 2, times 18 squared, divided by, pi square, multiplied by 4, we're going to get, uh, basically, we're going to get, around, 16.4 watts, okay, so, we have to make sure, that the output devices, these, output devices, are capable of, dissipating, 16.4 watts, at, uh, you know, at, uh, certain temperature, we cannot use the, uh, ambient temperature, because obviously, the junction is going to, heat up, uh, because, you know, the power dissipation, so, by looking at the, the data sheet of this devices, we can take a look, but, uh, all we have to make sure, is that, you know, for the power we've chosen, our devices need to dissipate, uh, a minimum of 16.4 watts, okay, so, and if you're going to use, uh, devices that, I'll, I'll spec in this, um, in this amplifier, if you're going to use different devices, then those devices should be able to, dissipate that amount of, power at a higher, junction temperature, okay, so, these are the specifications, for this power amplifier, uh, what I'll do is, uh, hopefully by tomorrow, uh, I should be able to go in, and design, the, input stage, of this amplifier completely, and, you know, we'll design this section tomorrow, uh, on the input stage, and why we're using a differential amplifier, versus, you know, a single ended amplifier, I will go into the details, and if you want, as a preview, you can go ahead, and watch my other video, that goes into detail, of, uh, an amp, um, a differential amplifier design, uh, so, as a refresher, if you want, so, uh, that's where I'm at, at the moment, so, let's basically, close this video, by playing, uh, well, we don't need to play again, I was going to play another, uh, demo, but, we've, you've heard the amplifiers, you know, sounds, uh, quite okay, so, we'll call it at that, and, uh, basically, I'll see you in the next video, where we'll design the input stage, thank you very much for watching, and, uh, looking forward to, uh, doing the other video, thank you very much, bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.