XRsJRqipSx8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRsJRqipSx8
Unknown Category
Hi, this is János, it's RealWorld Audio, and we are back on track with the amplifier loudspeaker matching series about that. So basically Zoe Nagy asked a question about Zobell networks, is that can we fix the impedance issues with Zobell networks and the impedance issues of loudspeakers, because on my previous videos in this series I told mostly about impedance problems that when you have with loudspeakers and can they be fixed with Zobells. So the response for that is some of it can be fixed. And how is that, so just let me see, does it want to change? Let me see, yes, it didn't want to change, but it did after all. So basically this is just, this is not my thing, it's WaveCore's website, and just googled it up and found something that I can use to share with you. And they have a nice figures and drawings. So basically this is how a Zobell network looks like. You have here the driver, your tweeter, or a full range driver, and you add in parallel with your driver, resistor and a capacitor combination. And what it does is that it neutralizes the effect of the Voyeur's coil's self-inductance. Or actually that's what we want to approximate. It doesn't actually neutralize that effect, but it is similar, it is complementary to that, and that's the net effect that you are seeing. So when you look at the impedance here of the tweeter or full range driver, it looks like this. It has a self-resonant frequency. And below that the impedance drops down. And above that the impedance drops down. And where it drops here, that's the impedance minima of the driver. And if you divide that by 0.8, then you get the nominal impedance of the loudspeaker that's using this driver. And you see that minima, where it is, that's where your driver is happiest working at, and the least problem-free in operation. And then the impedance starts to rise because of the self-inductance of the voice coil. And as it starts to rise, after a while we are going to get into issues. And at the far end the issues will start to get dominated by the inductance of the voice coil, which will ultimately limit the high frequency extension of the driver. But before that the problems will start occurring because the wavelength of the sound that the driver needs to produce is getting too short for the size of the driver to handle. So those two things are the ones that will ultimately limit the high frequency extension of your driver. And there's like a plenty of other things going on in the background, like motor strength, if it's not strong enough it cannot produce a clean detail. But what is the distortion of the, or the handling of the membrane of your driver, that's a completely different question regards to the impedance of it. So that's a different tail for a different day. So if we put in a Zobell network, that will create something like this. It won't create a perfect fat line, but it will flatten it out. And even if you just don't get this harsh rise, it will be nicer. However, is that solution a universal band-aid? No, it's not. In the case of an unruly tweeter, so if you have a tweeter that gets really harsh and annoying, or if you get a full range driver speaker and it has really annoying, harsh top end, then using a Zobell is probably your second best bet to improve it. I would say the first best bet is to use a high quality driver. If you can't do that, then you have something that has issues. In that case, just try to use it with a high quality amplifier. And when you don't have that, so you have a mid-low quality driver with a mid-low quality amplifier. That's when you really need the Zobell network, because the drivers by themselves usually are not that bad. What makes them sound truly bad and awful and just is the fact that they are driven by compromised amplifier. That's where your problems begin. And when you put a Zobell network there, it not only makes your driver smoother, but it kills off a lot of the harsh distortion coming from your power amplifier. So when you read the comments on my channel, Frank is commenting several times on the hard distortion. In French it's the distortion due. So it's like a form of distortion that is perceived as a harsh distortion to the human ear. And it's particularly nasty in the high end and just messes up the frequencies beyond 10 kilohertz pretty badly. So when you add the Zobell network and you have a mid-level, mid-to-low level solid state amplifier, that will do really wonders. And even if you have a higher level solid state amplifier, a very high quality Zobell will be your friend. And I think Gabor, he has mentioned, he has commented that he is making high quality Zobells and helping people to install them on their speakers. And everyone is super happy with them. And that's another application note for Zobell networks is that if you have a low level loudspeaker, low level amplification like an LM chip driven amplifier that you built or you bought for very cheap, then it's going to have a lot of hard distortion. And that hard distortion is the one that you perceive. That happens with real music. You can measure that same device with your oscilloscope and just a plain sine wave. And it is, yeah, it measures perfectly the sine wave. It's like measuring a car pilot, a student driver, drive on the test field. And yeah, he's great, you know, he could turn right, he could turn left. Then the instructor asked him to brake, yeah, he brake. He could shift up to gear two, back from gear two to gear one. Yeah, amazing. But that's very different from driving in heavy traffic. The two have, as the student, when you are a student driver and you know that you, you ace the driving course. And then you go out into heavy traffic on a highway or in a city, that's two completely different things. And even though you felt comfortable, like, you know, like just taking, swerving left and right. But out there it's like, man, it's like, I'm going to survive it. That's your first thought. And you will be just a klutz out there. And what you need to do is have like 10 years of driving experience. And then you can be on the phone, eat your sandwich, maybe shave at the same time, and it's still fine, no problem. But what they will measure you is like how you drive on the test course. And that's what the audio measurements do. And there the amp is not taxed, it's asked to perform basic tasks. And when we ask amplifiers to perform basic tasks into a resistor load, not into a loudspeaker, into a resistor load, then the solid state amplifiers are doing a phenomenal job. But when they are asked to drive a true loudspeaker, not a resistor, and use true music, then they fare much poorer compared to driving the test course of that resistor with a sine wave. And the tube topology, and I'm not just saying tube topology, but no negative feedback, short path, single-ended topology, the strength of it is driving the real thing. And when you ask them to drive a test course, they are not that good on that. And you expect them that because they are mediocre on the test course, in the real life they will just totally suck. But no, it's quite the other way around. And the fact that you look like how much power an amplifier can put into a resistor, and how much power can it put into a real life loudspeaker? When you look at solid state amplifiers, they can put out less power into a loudspeaker compared to what they can put out into a resistor. So when you read that your amplifier can put out 1000 watts into 2 ohms, that amplifier can put out 1000 watts into a 2 ohms resistor. So when you look at the 2 ohms loudspeaker load, it can put out less. And when you read that an amp tube amplifier can put out 8 watts into an 8 ohms load, then how much can it put out into a real loudspeaker? Well, very few people have done experimentation on that. AudioNote was one of them. They have a white paper on their website. And they used one of their amplifiers driving one of their speakers, and they examined three different amplifiers. They used one of their single-handed amps, tube amps with 300b amp. They used a push-pull tube amplifier, and they used a solid state amplifier. And they compared these three very different topologies. And they noticed that the solid state amplifier put out less than the rated wattage. The push-pull amplifier put out several times the rated wattage into that real loudspeaker. And they put out 300b amp. Sorry, 8 watts into that 8 ohms resistor. Into their loudspeaker put out 80 watts. 10 times the power that it was rated at. So that's why it's very critical that when you are looking at measurements and ratings, you make it clear in your mind that what you lead in the data sheets, in the measurements, how speakers are specified, they're specified with resistors as load, which has absolutely nothing to do with real life. But anyway, I digress. So now let's return back to the subject on hand, the Zobell networks. So that's why a Zobell network can be your friend, because even though the measurement didn't of a resistor, of a sine wave, didn't tell you anything what your amplifier would do with a loudspeaker with music, but your hearing will confirm you that your Zobell network is absolutely necessary to clean up the highs. And the problem that it fixes in most cases is not the problem of the rise of the impedance of the voice coil. Because the rise of the impedance will do its phase shift and will incur a loss of information. And that loss of information you cannot undo by adding a capacitor resistor network. It's just going to lose additional bits of information, but in an opposite phase. So the distortion of the two, the kind of distortion, what they do to the sound, they will cancel out each other. But the information loss by one and the information loss by the other won't be cancelled out. So you will have even greater level of information loss when you have the Zobell in place. However, because you have cleaned up so much of the hard distortion of your amplifier's output, in most cases you will experience this as a revelation. Because most of that hard distortion is gone and you are able to hear high frequencies coming out from your loudspeaker. Which before you have not heard. Because the hard distortion of your source, of your amplifier was masquerading, was masking the highest frequencies with distortion content. And when I listen to lower level gear, and when you listen to them, and it seems, wow, this sounds really extended in the highs. But when you listen to it, that's not natural, that's not part of the music. It's the distortion of the amplifier masquerading as high-end. And when you put on a Zoba, that distortion is cut. But you also notice that the highs, they don't extend anymore that much. And that's because it's cutting from the information content. So let's try it, if my computer will let me go back to the PowerPoint. Where are you? Here. Okay, so let's try to... Yes, so here we are. So let's say in the case, we take this loudspeaker and we put a Zobel on it. What it will do is, it will start to cut this part of the frequency range, the highest frequencies. And as you see, this is a Bauer-Wilkins 805D3. And it has a big peak at 10 kilohertz. So if we would put a Zobel on, then that would tame that 10 kilohertz region. So it wouldn't sound as harsh. And of course, if it has that 10 kilohertz region, it's not just the speaker sounding harsh. But if your amplifier has hard distortion at 10 kilohertz, it will be extremely painful, because your loudspeaker will bump it up like 5 dB higher than the average output of the loudspeaker. And in that if we tame it, then we don't just tame that unruliness of the speaker, but we also mitigate the fact that it does to the hard distortion coming from your amplifier. However, when we go higher in frequency, let's say 20 kilohertz, now the output has dropped tremendously by 20 kilohertz. And if we add the Zobel, it will be even lower than that. So ultimately, with the Zobel, it will not help us to fix the very top of the high frequency. And what you might end up is add a Zobel plus add a super tweeter or an ultrasonic tweeter that will help you to fill out that 15 plus kilohertz region that now you realize is just not there at the level you want. However another issue, the big issue with impedance occurs down there, that region. like below 200 hertz, we start to have some, but mostly it's below like 60 hertz, where it gets really painful and really taxing. But that's time for another video to expand on that. And thank you for being here. Thank you for watching, for educating yourself and keeping me company virtually through the ethers of the internet. And have a wonderful day. Bye bye. Bye bye. Bye bye. Bye bye.